Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja The Atiku Presidential Campaign Organisation (APCO) has offered to tutor the spokesman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Lanre Isa-Onilu, for two weeks on how to run an issue-based campaign that is guided by civility and refined language. The group said it was not surprised that the APC is throwing wild allegations at the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, given the sordid state of things in the APC and its imminent implosion over money politics. APCO in a statement yesterday said APC had in a statement last week falsely accused Atiku of attempting to smuggle in large sums of money into the country for the purpose of funding his campaign. The ruling party had called on security agents to be on the watch to prevent the imaginary ‘illicit cash’ from entering Nigeria. According to the campaign group, “Thus, we are surprised that the same APC which made that false allegation has made a 180-degree turn by releasing a new statement contradicting their earlier statement and alleging that the former vice president is broke.” APCO added that in the APC statement, the ruling party contended that ‘Atiku is at a crossroads on how to source funds for the 2019 electioneering.’ It stated: “Our advice to the APC is that they should send their spokesman to the Atiku Presidential Campaign Organisation for a two weeks crash course on how to run an issue-based campaign that is guided by civility and refined language. It is obvious that the APC is badly in need of such tutoring. “While the APC is throwing about baseless accusations, our candidate, Atiku, is set to launch tangible policies that will ‘Get Nigeria Working Again’ in the next week. Our campaign is focused on addressing the concerns and the welfare of Nigerians by ‘Atikulating’ plans to move Nigerians out of poverty. “We also sympathise with APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, on his ordeal and assure him that if he is finding the APC too hot for him, he may want to throw in the towel and join the large number of APC chieftains who have washed their hands off the party and its hydra-headed problems. “We know that the APC is desperate to distract attention from the recent indictment of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo by the House of Representatives for grand corruption and the interrogation of Oshiomhole by the Department of State Security (DSS) on charges of collecting huge bribes to influence party primaries.” It therefore urged the APC to make up its mind on which lie it wants to tell the Nigerian people and then stick to that lie. APCO said APC, as a party in power, there ought to be more stability in the APC, at least to give the public and the international community some assurance that the party is not imploding.