Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), has advised Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi to prosecute all head of the state owned tertiary institution found to have looted the treasury while at the helms of affairs. The association said this in Ado Ekiti recently while commenting on the 11-man probe panel set up by the state government to probe the activities of the Ekiti State University(EKSU), Ado Ekiti. Fayemi had on Monday constituted a visitation panel for EKSU , which terms of reference including determining the rots in the university and make recommendations appropriately. But in a joint statement jointly signed by NANS National Vice President, Mr. Raymond Ojo and Secretary of NANS’ Anti-Corruption Committee, Mr. Farouq Ahmed, the association urged Fayemi to set up similar panel to probe the Ekiti State College of Health Sciences and Technology, Ijero Ekiti under the leadership of the immediate past Provost, Mr. Bayo Ojo. NANS opposed the idea that the appointments of those directing the college’s affairs in acting capacities after the exit of Ojo should be confirmed, alleging that they were also part of the lingering maladministration affecting the fortunes of the institution negatively . The association commended Fayemi for abolishing all ‘illegal’ levies in public primary and secondary schools in the State barely one week he assumed office, describing the gesture as a veritable weapon that would tackle the menace of school dropouts as well as ensuring more students’ enrollment in line with the compulsory and free Education policy of the federal government . The body alleged that the college was badly managed under Ojo and that such had reduced the quality of learning in the institution. It appealed to Fayemi to inject new breed of leaders into the top and sensitive positions in the College and make the institution lives up to expectation of producing middle class health personnel for the country. It added that the institution required a new set of management with fresh ideas to be able to lead the institution aright, saying the new crops of leadership lack the innovation and ingenuity to properly run the College in a way that would bring the best out of the students. It reiterated that only the sack of the present principal officers “can prevent the school from total collapse. NANS demands for total overhauling of College and we call for total reshuffling of the present Management of the College as majority of its members have soiled their hands and contributed to the successful failure of Ojo’s Administration as the Provost of the college. “We appeal for immediate consideration and reinstatement of all the politically victimized students and staff members that were persecuted under the present management for dare to resist their actions.” NANS alleged that the institution “is now in comatose and needed urgent attentions from Fayemi. The College’s road network and gate are in deplorable conditions. “No potable water, electricity, classroom accommodation that could facilitate conducive teaching and learning. In spite of this the college wasted a huge amount of the resources on a white elephant project tagged ‘ Calabar Project’. “Also, it is on record that the Management of the institution forcefully converted our students to attend rallies during the last governorship electioneering campaign”, the association alleged.