United Capital Plc, a leading   investment banking group has  announced Sir Stephen Nwadiuko and Mr. Sonny Iroche as non-executive directors following the retirement of Ambassador John Shinkaiye. The company said in a statement at the weekend, that the appointments were subject to requisite regulatory approvals effective October 2, 2018. Nwadiuko is a fellow of Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria(CIBN), Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), Compliance Institute of Nigeria as well as an associate of Certified Pension Institute of Nigeria. He is a retired Deputy Director, Banking Supervision Department of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) where he worked for over 20 years. He was a former council member of the CIBN and Chairman, CIBN, Abuja Branch. He is currently a Member of the Investigating Panel of both the CIBN and ICAN as well as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Compliance Institute Nigeria. He was recently appointed as the Managing Director/CEO of First Guarantee Pensions Limited by the National Pensions Commission. On the other hand,  Iroche is a seasoned finance executive with over 30 years’ experience in banking, power and public service.  He has served on various boards such as the International Glass Industries Limited and GT Bank Sierra Leone. According to the company, these appointments will further cement United Capital as the leading investment banking group in Nigeria. Speaking on their proven track record and broad experience, Board Chairman, United Capital, Mr. Chika Mordi said: “Stephen and Sonny both bring robust insight and perspective to the quality of deliberations on the board, I welcome them both on board.” The United Capital is a leading African financial and investment services Group providing bespoke value-added service to its clients. The company is well positioned to play a strategic role in helping African governments and citizens (both individual and corporate) achieve their strategic objectives through our robust suite of financial and investment service offerings.