Duro Ikhazuagbe Nigerian international Victor Moses may return to his familiar loan spell away from Stamford Bridge in the winter transfer window due in barely two months from now. Already, Chelsea’s Italian Manager, Mauricio Sarri, has admitted that the Nigerian star has no place in his squad. Sarri insists he does not know where the 27-year-old winger will fit in his current Blues squad. The Italian gaffer who has only started Moses just once this season and has only six cumulating games so far again left out the former England junior player in Chelsea’s English League Cup clash with lower division Derby County on Wednesday night The Blues’ squad was populated by the likes of Chelsea youth team graduates like Calum Hudson Odoi, Ruben Loftus-Cheeks and others. But while fielding questions from English reporters yesterday, Sarri gave a hint that Moses could be closer to another loan spell than becoming a regular in his squad. He said he did not know where Moses will fit into in his team despite the fact that the Nigerian international effectively played the wing-back role under former manager Antonio Conte. Moses had on return from the World Cup in Russia with the Super Eagles call time on his national team appearances. The excuse he gave then was that he needed to concentrate on his club career so that he would be able to command starting shirt in the squad under new manager Sarri. All that appear ineffective now as he remains a candidate for the reserve bench with Sarri not considering him for any role in the present Blues set up. UK’s Daily Star however reported yesterday that Moses may end up on loan at Old Trafford with Manchester United in the January transfer window. The newspaper hinted that Moses, Eintracht Frankfurt’s Croatia star Ante Rebic and AS Roma’s Cengiz Under were on the radar of Jose Mourinho as possible players to lift Manchester United’s game from its poor state. Mourinho who was Moses’ coach at Chelsea is believed to be in the hunt for a new striker, as both Romelu Lukaku and Marcus Rashford have not been convincing this season with only five goals between the pair in 24 competitive games. Moses is believed could fit into United’s game with his pacy play. After joining Chelsea in August 2012, Moses was loaned out to Wigan, Liverpool, Stoke City and West Ham United before the arrival of The Blues’ former manager, Antonio Conte. Moses who has a contract with Chelsea until June 30, 2021, found his range under Conte and helped contributed to the team’s success in the 2016/17 season under the Italian manager.
With his continued bench-role now, it is just a matter of time before Moses is released on another loan spell.