Sunday Okobi Participants and organisers of the second edition of St Saviour’s School Ikoyi Endowment Fund Kids Mini-Marathon held last Saturday in Lagos have described the event as a huge success. The organisers noted that after a successful first edition last year, the 2018 Lagos Kids Mini-Marathon was well attended with over 2,500 children representing up to 50 schools in Lagos. With the theme ‘Active Kids Rock’, they stated that the mini-marathon is recognised as Nigeria’s only kids-focused marathon, which saw children participating in the 1.2 kilometres, 3km and 5km distance races for kids aged 5 to 15 respectively. The marathon gave parents the opportunity to run with their children and wards turning it to a family fun day of fitness and wellness. Accordingly, the winning kids received prizes from AXA Mansard, Access Bank, Aiteo, MTN among others. The Treasurer of the St Saviour’s School Ikoyi Endowment Fund and member of the mini-marathon planning committee, Mr. Ayere Ezekiel, noted that the mini-marathon was aimed at encouraging healthy living among kids and parents, as well as “to have an event that is built into the yearly calendar for Lagos families.” Ezekiel stated further that part of the proceeds from the ticket sales is used to support Slum 2 School Africa, a volunteer-driven social organisation working to empower disadvantaged children in disadvantaged communities “to realize their full potential through the provision of educational scholarships, health and other psycho-social support.” Among the winners on 4 to 6 years category were Olivia Ofonagoro and Zak Sodeinde; White category (7 to 8 years) boys: Eli Nwachukwu and Chimdi Chiakwela, (girls) Dorcas Nwapa, Ann Osugbesan and Sonekan Ariola. On the Blue category (9 to 12 years) boys: Owoade Habeeb, Afolabi Yusuf and Bolu Amowoyagi were declared winner while the female winners were Mohammed Ramota and Amara Balogun. Winners in the Yellow category (13 and 15 years) male: were Similoluwa Gbenle, Toheeb Muritala and Akanderu Joleme while the female winners were Dara Goodluck, Ibukun Agbede and Ologede Tofunmi.