Martins Ifijeh Angels come to mankind in many ways. Some come with wings and shades of orchestras to give sweet melodious sounds to any being that crosses their way. Some come as unseen guides to nuture and nurse each being to parts of freedom and happiness. But there are others who come in human form to save mankind from destruction. They are born just like humans, lives amongst men, but in the end, deliver their messages and leaving this sinful world. Hardly do such angels stay on the planet in earth’s energy field for very long at a time. One of such angels was Stella Adadevoh, the late medical doctor who stopped the spread of Ebola in Nigeria, by paying the supreme price. When her mission was complete, she graciously left for heaven. Adadevoh died in August 2014, after she came in contact with a Liberian diplomat, Patrick Sawyer, who although diagnosed of Ebola Virus Disease (EVD), still willfully travelled to Nigeria for a conference. When he was taken to First Consultant Hospital where the late Adadevoh worked, she ensured that he was quarantined despite threats from the Liberian government to let him go. The late doctor’s heroic move helped curb the massive spread of the virus, thereby saving millions of Nigerians. But it been four years since she finished her divine job and left, yet it looked just like yesterday. Her supreme sacrifice has continued to be part of the narrative when discussions about the 2014 Ebola plague are discussed. She was 58 years old at the time. But few days ago, the world again remembered her. It was her birthday, as she would have been 62 years on October 27. But as typical of the maker of the universe, he only takes the best. Adadevoh was the best amongst men. She was too good to be here after what she did to save Nigeria. She is now with her maker. First, Google, world’s biggedst search engine honoured the icon on her 62nd posthumous birthday with a doodle. A doodle is the temporary replacement of the Google logo on its homepage to celebrate holidays, events, achievements or people. President Muhammadu Buhari also eulogised her in a statement posted on his Twitter page, using the handle, @MBuhari. Buhar said: “Dr Stella Adadevoh would have turned 62 today. Today and always we celebrate her dedication and sacrifice. As part of our efforts to build on her legacy our administration has put great effort into strengthening the Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC).” Also, the Senate President, Bukola Saraki on Twitter, said “Dr. Ameyo Stella Adadevoh was a true Nigerian #hero who paid the ultimate sacrifice in the service of our nation and all its people. We join all Nigerians to celebrate her life today, on the commemoration of her posthumous birthday.” Dr. Stella Adadevo is said to be the grand-niece of Nigeria’s first President, Nnamdi Azikiwe and also, a great grand-daughter of Herbert Samuel Macaulay, a prominent Nigerian nationalist.