*NB Plc charges Eagles to Beat S’Africa Duro Ikhazuagbe Super Eagles’ camp for the AFCON 2019 qualifier against South Africa in Asaba, Delta State formally opened yesterday with Henry Onyekuru, Ola Aina and Moses Simon amongst the early birds to begin strategising on how to inflict maximum damage on the Bafana Bafana. Most of the invited 21 players are expected to troop into the Elomaz Hotel base of the team in the Delta State capital this morning for full training to begin in the evening. The grudge AFCON Match-day 5 clash between Nigeria and South Africa has been scheduled to hold at the 94, 000 FNB Stadium in Johannesburg.  Bafana Bafana defeated Nigeria 2-0 at the Godswill Akpabio Stadium in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State in the opening Group E game of the qualifiers June June last year. However, in a press statement issued by Emmanuel Oriakhi, the Marketing Director of Nigerian Breweries Plc on the AFCON qualifier, the brewery company believes Coach Gernot Rohr and his Eagles are motivated enough to avenge that loss and confirm their ticket to the biennial African football fiesta in Cameroon next year. “As an official partner of the Nigeria Football Federation, Nigerian Breweries Plc is solidly behind the Super Eagles to deliver the goals and the points to seal the very important ticket that will guarantee Nigeria’s return to the Africa Cup of Nations after failing to qualify for the last two editions in 2015 in Equatorial Guinea and 2017 in Gabon,” Oriakhi stated. Nigerian Breweries Plc, whose brands, Star Lager beer and Amstel Malta are the Official Beer and Official Malt drinks of the Super Eagles respectively has assured NFF and the team of its support all the way to South Africa. “As the Official Beer and Official Malt drink of the Super Eagles, the two brands will be providing support to players and coaching crews, as well as premium satisfaction to millions of passionate fans that will be cheering the Super Eagles before, during and after Saturday’s game in Johannesburg to secure the ticket to participate in the 32nd edition of Africa’s premier football competition, Cameroon 2019,” Oriakhi added further. He reiterated that Star Lager has always been a strong supporter of Nigerian Football and its fans, while Amstel Malta is well known for inspiring people to be the best they can be. “We are dedicated to the growth of Nigerian Football at all levels,” he further explained. Meanwhile, the Confederation of African Football (CAF) has named Gambia’s Bakary Gassama as the centre referee for the game with his countrymen, Sulayman Sosseh and Omar Darboe as the first and second assistant referees respectively. Nigeria leads Group E with nine points from four games while South Africa is second with eight points from same number of games while Libya is third with four points. Seychelles with just one point from the draw with Bafana Bafana is at the rear of the standing.