Emma Okonji In a bid to offer Nigerians realtime internet connectivity, Globacom has extended its 4G LTE service to cover more locations across the country, with its footprint extending to all the 36 states of the country and over 200 tertiary institutions. The feat, Globacom said, underscored its status as the network with the widest LTE coverage in the country as no other operator has such an extensive coverage of the service. The national operator had in October, 2016, become the first network in Nigeria to roll out the 4G LTE service. It also became the first to launch a nationwide 4G LTE network, offering instant efficient broadband internet to millions of Nigerians at speeds that are several times faster than the 3G network. The 700MHz band gives Glo 4G better coverage and penetration, Globacom explained. “The radio propagation property of the 700MHz band enables Globacom 4G signal to travel the farthest, giving the largest coverage for any site. In effect, any city where Glo LTE is present, it covers the widest area than any other network,” the company said in a statement. “It also gives a better indoor penetration than other networks which are not on the band. Indeed, it offers seamless 4G coverage within the major cities without the requirement of handing over to 3G or 2G while using data, whether the subscriber is indoor or outdoor. This ensures a better user experience for 4G subscribers on the Glo network”, it further said. A major advantage of the band is that it comes with a dedicated spectrum bandwidth of 10MHz which gives users the fastest speed among all 4G operators required to download and view movies and videos as well as listen to songs without any delay. It all comes in crystal clear quality. Glo 4G LTE is backed by the company’s international submarine cable, Glo 1, which has provided the much needed internet bandwidth for West Africa sub-region. To enjoy the superior Glo 4G LTE services and most competitive pricing that gives subscriber the best value data plans, Globacom advised that subscribers should visit any Gloworld outlet near them to purchase a 4G devices and SIM. Globacom said existing customers with 4G-enabled smart phone could upgrade their SIMs free of charge at any Gloworld outlets, while customers without a 4G-enabled smart phone can purchase one from the same Gloworld outlets. Our focus on higher institutions is to empower students and the academic community with the fastest and affordable data services which are needed to facilitate their academic curriculum. Globacom said.