A leading provider of bulkSMS and mobile marketing solutions in Nigeria, eStoreSMS.com, has upgraded its platform to deal in political campaigns and bills payment. According to the company, its expansion to the political space was as a result of the pool of opportunities and depthness of sms marketing in the field. It added that its diversification into bill payments was to allow users to also pay for paytv subscriptions on its platform. Speaking on the development, Spokesperson and Manager of the company, Tope Olarewaju, pointed out that SMS marketing outperforms other channels like social media, radio and TV as a last-mile tool to reach the electorates. He said: “The technology is optimized to deliver campaign messages, mobilize volunteers, send out timely information and keep the aspirant top of mind during an election period. “Approximately 84 million people with permanent voters’ card are eligible to vote in the upcoming 2019 elections according to the Independent National Electoral Commission ,INEC . “As SMS is priced below three naira per message, experts posit that the medium might indeed be more effective as a last-mile approach for political parties to reach electorates, especially those in sub-urban and rural communities where the majority might not have access to smartphones. Olarewaju also highlighted a bouquet of services that include bulk SMS, airtime top-up, phone number database and voice SMS. Group Chief Operating Officer of the parent company, Quam Ojikutu noted that the firm is on course with political stakeholders to obtain the demographic-specific phone number database that comprises their target electorates and send SMS at affordable rates. “So far, several notable political figures, government institutions, banks and high-profiled organizations have served as customers on the platform because of its guaranteed SMS delivery rate with over 150 million SMS messages sent”, he said. Quam claimed that the technology that powers eStoreSMS.com supports sending SMS to phone numbers active on do-not-disturb (DND) via its corporate route services. He added that users can send broadcast messages with custom sender ID, thereby making it easy for recipients to recognize the sender of a message