 Ms Bunmi Aliyu is Event Manager IGF Expo, Clarion Events West Africa.   How has the Nigerian retail market grown and changed over the last year? The retail industry in Nigeria is still enjoying a period of positive transformation marked by steady growth with the Highest retail sales in Sub Saharan Africa $125  billion. Of course, as with every growing sector there has been some challenges but the resilience and innovation of the players in this market has allowed our retail industry to remain strong and healthy.   How many retail events does clarion organize globally ? Clarion Events is one of the world largest exhibition organizers. As part of over 200 trade fairs we run organize annually around the world, we run over 30 retail events globally and  support over 5,000 businesses; exhibitors and sponsors,  attracting over 70,000 discerning retailers and professionals from across the world including buyers like Amazon, John Lewis and so many others.  Tell us about  IGF Expo? We are hosting in November over 200 manufacturers and suppliers of interiors, gift and fashion from 13 countries including Canada, USA, UK, India, Turkey, China etc during our upcoming IGF Expo in November 13-15th who will be taking bulk, wholesale and retail orders, some companies are looking to meet and appoint agents and distributors across West Africa. We have top international brands attending this event including Premier Housewears, Damat, Loft, Daniel Gianni etc.  What industry support do you have? The event is duly supported by major associations that form part of the advisory board including The Retail Council, The Nigerian Institute of architects, The African Association of Interior designers etc apart from this we are in collaboration with Buyers clusters across Nigeria  How many companies will be showcased at the event? The event will featuring over over 100 local designers and international brands, hundreds of new and exciting design-led and everyday home, décor, fashion and giftware products will be on display.  How will the IGF impact and help the Nigerian Manufacturer? This event allows Nigerian manufacturers to showcase their products side by side with international brands and gives buyers the opportunity to compare side by side Nigerian and international brands also brands could meet buyers and stockists from other countries.  What features can we expect at IGF? IGF Expo is designed with your business in mind. Expect major Brands from UK, USA, Turkey, India, Canada, UAE and EU. International brands that has been displayed at the show includes Premier House wears, Wham, Damat, Loft, Yankee Candle, Bagno Design, Dilhan and many more. Secondly, expect Large International Pavilions from India, Turkey and China displaying low, mid, and High- point interior, gift and fashion items. Also holding during the event is the West African retail and design conference provides a platform for sharing knowledge and best practice within the industry. These seminars have been devised to help Nigerian retailers, interior designers and professional buyers Increase revenue, upskill their teams and promote their brand. The speakers list are made up of industry giants including Nick Imudia CEO Konga, Tony Ezekeil MD ITEX Global.   How will attending the IGF help increase retail buyer’s profit and grow their business? Attendees at the event will access up to 40% discount in show only discounts, have opportunity to view New products and A/W2018 collection launches, Save money on expensive international Flight costs, Visa fees and meet local and international suppliers in Lagos that could increase your profit margins and give you an edge over your competitor. Bunmi Aliyu is a project manager with Clarion Events, with extensive experience in marketing and communications strategy and business development. Her cross functional experience in private and public sector has made her a versatile leader with robust experience in the area of international trade promotions and the African retail markets.