Traders in Computer Village market, Ikeja, Lagos, have called on federal government to intervene  in their activities for improved growth and development. Speaking on their behalf, Chief Executive Officer  of Mojoy Computers Limited, Mrs. Nike Shittu, stated that considering the market’s huge potential,  it was important that  government at the national level and its relevant agencies set up a small and medium enterprises (SMEs), support programme to aid businesses in the market, being a critical segment of the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) industry in Nigeria. Shittu  noted that a lot of operators were migrating  from the environment to pursue  a career in the formal sector, hence, slowing down development in the general ICT space. Shittu said: “I have been doing business in this arena for 18 years and I must say that the  market has evolved to become the leading technology business hub in Nigeria. “It is however unfortunate that  government have not  shown enough support for  SMEs which happens to be  the backbone of the economy of many countries . Small businesses gather small number of people and before you know it, they are taking unemployment out of the country. “I should be doing more than I’m doing now but I cannot because of   financial constraints. Despite the value of activities here, we  have never been encouraged by the  authority. By the time one goes to the bank, they start asking for things that one might not even own,  this shows that the banks too don’t believe in us.” The  Mojoy Chief therefore appealed to institutions like the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), Ministries of Communication and Information, to always represent the interest of the market before  the federal government. “We need help within the cluster, and I don’t think that Federal Government  can see us from afar . With the intervention of relevant institutions,we believe we can get the needed help and be offered  facilities that will be within unit interest to help  and sustain us. Borrowing at 28%, 30% is like we are just working for the bank, we  actually need this help so urgently”, she said. Shittu also encouraged women and youths  to remain committed to their respective businesses regardless  of accompanying risks. “You should know exactly what you are doing because these days, you can only take calculated risks. Why take stupid risks? Remain focused in the business and avoid distractions that may be coming from different corners. Also, don’t operate beyond your capacity, she admonished.”