The governorship candidate of  All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) in Imo State, Senator Ifeanyi Araraume, has said that unlike what is currently being obtained in Imo State, where governance has been personalised, the size of government is very large to accommodate everyone in his government, if elected, assuring party members that those who work will be rewarded. This is coming as one of the leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, has praised the leadership qualities of Araraume, revealing that he won the 2007 governorship election in Imo State but was denied the victory. The Media Unit of Senator Araraume Campaign Organisation quoted its principal as speaking at his expanded residence in Isiebu, Isiala Mbano in Imo State weekend, when he hosted a reconciliation ceremony, attended by thousands of party’s members and friends. Ararume said APGA will win the coming state governorship election. He advised members of APGA to take charge of the campaign, promising to do everything legitimate and lawful to make sure the party wins the governorship election in the state in the coming general election. “We had our primaries; we have finished with it; the party has submitted names. Like in every contest, you have winners and losers. But the most important thing is to unite the party — by talking to all those who contested the primary with you at all levels and lost. We are talking to them — that APGA is one big formidable family. All of us must work
together. ‘’The size of government is very large and everyone will find some accommodation somehow. People will work from the local government level up to the national level. We have the local government that will take some people; others will be interested in doing business with government. There is a lot to be done. But what is most important is to unite everybody and making APGA a formidable machine to win the election in 2019’’, he stated. The governorship hope said that in the next week a few people who were not comfortable with the outcome of the primary election will come on board, saying the party at the national level has also set up a national reconciliation committee headed by the party’s Vice-Presidential candidate, Chief Jerry Chukwueke to bring everybody together in the interest of the party. Senator Araraume added, ‘’Beside that, we are doing a lot at our own level. I have had talks with all those who contested with me, and we are talking. Our talks are yielding results. Many of them are happy. You know my running mate also aspired to be governor. He is from Owerri zone and he is now my running mate. That shows you the level of reconciliation we have done. ‘’Everyone is working hard on this. APGA members and even non APGA member are involved. They are all doing this because they know that APGA is a party that parades what it takes to deal with post-Rochas Okoroacha Imo and to manage the state.’’ To manage a state like Imo, Araraume said a lot of skills are needed, adding that it takes just more than academic qualifications. “There are usually unusual happenings and it means that in the post-Rochas Imo, you would need to do a lot to manage the issues. First, you would need to bring our people together’’, he explained. On his part, Iwuanyanwu spoke during the funeral service of Late Nze Edmund Ogunedo Dikeocha at Our Saviour’s Anglican Church, Uvuru,Aboh Mbaise LGA ,traced the political instability in Imo state to 2007 election where the party failed to do the right thing, just as he expressed regret over the pains the state had gone through According to  Iwuanyanwu, “Senator Araraume is one of my political sons whom I am well pleased. He won the 2007 governorship election in Imo state under the platform of PDP. I still have the records. I know him very well. I know his capacity when it comes to election and I am sure God’s time is the best.”