Mary Nnah In a bid to make this year’s edition an all-inclusive one, the organisers of Miss Nigeria has withdrawn registration fees to prevent financial restraints on the part of young ladies, who are truly deserving of the ultimate title. Therefore, following the recent restructuring and announcement of a new creative director for the organisation, Miss Nigeria also recently announced its “call for entry” for the 2018 edition of the pageant. The competition is open to young ladies within the 18-25 age bracket who possess exemplary leadership qualities and can align excellently with the organisation’s mission to empower women beyond beauty. To register, interested contestants are expected to visit www.missnigeria.ng/how-to-register/ The organisation in its bid to bring back the essence of its establishment has highlighted six core targets that would be crucial in the selection of the ultimate winner of its prestigious title this year. These targets – Education, Environment, Arts & Culture, Health, Financial Management and Technology – behoves the aspiring queen to empower women, improve the lives of people and improve society at large via these core targets. This year’s competition will not be business as usual as the winner will not be selected based on physical attributes alone but factors such as intellectual prowess, ability to function effectively within the six core targets; will be heavily prioritised.
The essence of good education cannot be overemphasised. This is why the Miss Nigeria Organisation seeks a queen who values education, one who will ensure a greener environment, a queen who is concerned about adequate mental and physical health of women, and manages finances prudently. The organisation seeks a queen who loves and promotes the Nigerian arts and culture, one who recognises technology as the future and invests her time in improving the technological state of the nation. Speaking on the targets, the Creative Director of Miss Nigeria, Ezinne Akudo Anyaoha said, “We are committed to finding a young lady who defies the stereotypical perception of beauty queens as just superficial. She said: “Miss Nigeria 2018 must embody all the attributes of a strong female leader. She must be beautiful, socially conscious and committed to positively influencing young women across the country and continent.”