*Wants DSS, EFCC to probe APC chairman’s call log Onyebuchi Ezigbo in Abuja A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Director General of the Voice of Nigeria (VON), Osita Okechukwu, has asked the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, to resign honourably to save the party from further embarrassment. The APC national chairman was reportedly interrogated by the security agencies early this week before he traveled out of the country. Speaking against the background of allegations of corruption arising from the recent primaries of the party, Okechukwu said Oshiomhole’s exit will save the ruling party from the serious moral burden his reported interrogation by the Department of State Security Services had imposed on it. The VON director general who is an ally of President Muhammadu Buhari since their days in the defunct Congress for Progressive Change, and an aggrieved senatorial aspirant in Enugu State, also urged DSS and the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) to immediately probe the call logs of Oshiomhole. Addressing a press conference at the national secretariat of the party in Abuja on Thursday, Okechukwu said it was imperative that Oshiomhole resigns forthwith to save the APC and President Buhari on the eve of a crucial general election. “Penultimate week, I joined the league of APC moral leaders, faithful and men of good conscience to call on Comrade Adams Oshiohmole, to honourably resign forthwith the chairmanship of our great party. In his usual narcissistic disposition he refused. “Gentlemen of the press, as the Oshiohmole Must Go wave raged, the Department of State Security Service (DSS) got wind of it. They interrogated him and I patiently waited to read in the social or main media from Comrade Oshiomhole and his spin doctors over his tango with the DSS, neither rebuttal nor denial came from them”, he said. Okechukwu further alleged that Oshiomhole was running away from duty to evade the substitution window, “meant to redress the grievances of some of us, who are casualties of his nepotism.” “I therefore, once again, stridently call on Comrade Oshiomhole to instead of pontification, grandstanding and running away from the country; to do the needful by honourably resigning the chairmanship of our great party. “It is imperative that he resigns forthwith to save the APC and Mr President on the eve of 2019 crucial general election. One personally would not want the mud Comrade Oshiohmole had accumulated via gross breach of the Constitution of the APC, the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and extant laws to be splashed on neither our great party nor Present Muhammadu Buhari. “One once more challenges the DSS to scroll the phone-log of Comrade and his nepotic court of cronies.” The VON DG, however exonotared President Buhari and Asiwaju Bola Tinubu from having knowledge of Oshiomhole’s ordeal saying that the former Edo State governor should be able to accept his failings. He also said that the party may find it difficult to face Nigerians with Oshiomhole leading the campaigns ahead of next year’s general elections. “You can imagine if Oshiomohle comes to Enugu with President Buhari for a campaign, people might pelt him with stone,” he said.