Given three months to complete restructuring of Nigeria football Duro Ikhazuagbe Amaju Melvin Pinnick’s desire to bequeath a sustainable football culture for the country got a boost wednesday with the naming of a first-of-its-kind Reform Committee for the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). The committee is a fulfilment of the promise made by Pinnick when handed a fresh four-year mandate at the NFF’s Elective Congress in Katsina last month. He said in his acceptance speech then that the administration of the game in the country would be reformed to bring it in line with global best practice. First Vice President of the NFF, Seyi Akinwunmi, is saddled with completing the restructuring the country’s football in three months. The constitution of the committee whose membership cuts across a broad spectrum of football stakeholders was endorsed at the 74th Annual General Assembly of the federation in Asaba last week. NFF 2nd Vice President/LMC Chairman Shehu Dikko will serve as Vice Chairman, with other Board members Ibrahim Musa Gusau and Chidi Ofo Okenwa also in, as well as NFF General Secretary, Dr. Mohammed Sanusi. There are also Chief Taiwo Ogunjobi (Chairman, Osun State FA), Rt. Hon. Margaret Icheen (Chairman, Benue State FA), Porbeni Ogun (Chairman, Bayelsa State FA), Nasiru Saidu (Chairman, Sokoto State FA), Alh. Garba Mohammed (Chairman, Yobe State FA), Dr. Kweku Tandoh (Executive Chairman, Lagos State Sports Commission), Godwin Dudu Orumen (Executive Chairman, Edo State Sports Commission), Alh. Farouk Yarma Adamu (Commissioner for Youth Empowerment, Gombe State), Chief (Mrs) Dilichukwu Onyedinma (Director of Sports, FCT), Alh. Abba Yola (Chairman, NFF Technical Study Group) and Isaac Danladi, Chairman of NPFL Club Owners). Others are Alh. Shuaib Gara-Gombe, business mogul Yemi Idowu, Sampson Ebomhe and sports journalists Tony Ubani, Felix Awogu, Osasu Obayiuwana, Godwin Enakhena and Chisom Ezeoke, as well as one representative each of the Nigeria Football Coaches Association, Nigeria Referees Association and the National Association of Nigeria Professional Footballers. Already, the committee has appointed George Etomi and Partners as independent Secretary/Legal Adviser (with liberty to seek other legal advice). The law firm will do all the collation and categorization of data. The Chairman, Akinwunmi who is an attorney, has also appointed leading journalist, Mr. Colin Udoh, as his Special Assistant with specific responsibilities for research and social media enablement. Akinwunmi revealed yesterday that the committee will have a dedicated website and relevant email addresses (@Nigeriafootballreforms), “for people in every nook and cranny in Nigeria and also in the diaspora to be able to contribute to this debate and reform, as we will post all and any relevant document for review and general discussions. There could even be scheduled Q and A session on particular topics to be handled by specific persons. “In line with FIFA and CAF best practice, of these members shall be selected a 9 (nine) – Member Bureau that will serve as the engine room to drive the committee work and manage the day to day activities of the committee. There will be a minimum of six meetings (twice a month) and a 2-3 Day retreat at the end of the exercise. All other interactions would be done online.” It was further gathered that the committee will visit each of the geopolitical zones (not all the members) to have town hall discussions and meet specific groups, as well as engage a permanent media team to cover every meeting and interaction across the country on a retainer basis (ultimately, materials would be produced and archived for posterity).