The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) will on Monday, Nov. 19 arraign a former lecturer of the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, Prof. Richard Akindele, at the Federal High Court, Osogbo. He is to be arraigned for allegedly demanding sex from one of his students, Ms Monica Osagie, in order to upgrade her academic result from fail to pass. Spokesperson for the Commission, Mrs. Rasheedat Okoduwa, made this known in a statement in Abuja on Wednesday. According to her, Akindele will be docked based on a three-count charge having been accused of using his position as a lecturer in the Department of Management and Accounting to demand for sexual benefit from a student. The Commission said his actions were contrary to Sections 8 (1) (a) (ii), and 18 (d) of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act, 2000 and are punishable under the same sections. One of the counts reads, “That you, professor Akindele, on or about the Sept. 16 2017 at Ile-Ife did corruptly ask for sexual benefits for yourself from Ms. Monica Osagie on account of favour to be afterwards shown to her by you in the discharge of your official duties as a lecturer in the Department of Management and Accounting, Obafemi Awolowo University, to wit. “This altered her academic grades in the course with code MBA 632- Research Method from fail to pass; and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 8(1)(a)(ii) of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act, 2000.” The spokesperson said the the 57-year-old professor had asked for plea-bargain having admitted guilt. She added that Akindele also cited ill-health as a factor that might make him unable to stand the rigours of prison life, notifying the commission through his lawyer, Omotayo Alade-Fawole. He pleaded that his prayers for plea-bargain be considered, more so as he was already serving punishment for his offence having been sacked by the university. “It would be recalled that in an interview granted The Punch newspaper, Osagie had expressed a lack of confidence in the capacity of ICPC to give a fair hearing. “This public announcement of Akindele’s impending arraignment is in fulfillment of the commission’s promise to the public in a rejoinder in the same newspaper dated Sept. 7, 2018 to avail them of the outcome of the investigation in due time.”(NAN)