Kayode Fasua The Association of Christian Theologians (ACTS) has expressed disappointment in pastors and other men of God who are in the habit of parading the corridors of power, to curry the favour of politicians. The ACTS expressed its worry in a communiqué it issued in Lagos at the weekend, following its recently held national conference in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State. In the communiqué signed by its National President, Professor Kunle Macaulay; National Secretary, Prof. Michael Ajayi, and Director, Public Relations, Rev (Dr.) Grace Ajayi, the body of theologians said men of God who “are fond of trading their hood and cassock for regular porride in the seat of power are betrayers of Christ.” It particularly advised church leaders, to, in realisation of the secular nature of the Nigerian state, stop carousing people in the corridors of power, in order to maintain their integrity. “It is realised that Nigeria is a secular nation. Christian leaders should respect the secularity of the nation, protect faith-based institutions in Nigeria and only advise or correct people in government as found necessary. “Avoid romancing with people in the corridors of power. Church activities should focus on building the morals of the nation and churches are encouraged to respect the Constitution of Nigeria and the sacredness of their purpose on earth,” the ACTS counselled. Besides, the ACTS expressed concern that 80 percent of church workers in all Christian denominations in Nigeria are not trained, warning that such a situation portends serious danger to the Christian faith. The body of theologians lamented, “It is observed that over 80 percent of church workers of all Christian denominations are not formally or informally trained. There is no recognised apprenticeship, assistantship and mentorship programmes for church workers.” It thus recommended that workers in church or Christian ministries should have proper professional training and be certified after the training. Besides, the ACTS complained that there had been lack of unity among Christians in Nigeria, owing to denominational rigidity and other factors, warning that a disunited body of Christ defeats the very essence of Christianity. “It is recognised that doctrinal rigidity of some church makes it difficult for churches to be united. But the faithful must realise that the Church is one and its purpose is one. God recognises only one church,” it stressed. Meanwhile, the ACTS has described its national conference which held in Yenagoa from October 23 to 26, 2018 as a huge success. It noted that the theme of the conference-“The integrity of Christianity in the contemporary society”, underscored the concern of theologians about the human situations in Nigeria, and the success and failure of the Church in the country. “It was agreed by these experts that the Word of God-The Bible, addresses all aspects of humanity that include family, employment, politics, economy and health. Therefore, theologians must stand to defend the cause of their profession in Nigeria.”