Emma Okonji The Nigeria Computer Society (NCS), the umbrella body for all practicing computer professionals in Nigeria has said adopting the right policies will help address the country’s insecurity challenges. The NCS insisted that full deployment of Information and Communications Technology (ICT) solutions would go a long way in addressing security issues in the country. President of NCS, Prof. Adesola Aderounmu who restated NCS commitment in addressing Nigeria’s challenges, said NCS had over the years released several ideas and policies to government that would help reshape the Nigerian economy, but expressed his dissatisfaction over the unwillingness of government to implement some of the ideas.
He blamed this on lack of government political will power to do the needful. Aderounmu spoke at a press conference in Lagos to announce the preparation for the commemoration of NCS 40th anniversary. “Over the past 40 years, NCS has been the primary agent behind the amazing and rapid increase in Information Technology (IT) deployment in Nigeria. “With regard to achieving sustainable development through IT, NCS has been the advocacy champion behind local content development, Cashless and Fintech, IT in Government, IT for National Security, use of IT for productivity in all spheres of life, IT Education and so many others that are changing Nigerian society dramatically,” Aderounmu said. According to him, part of the 40th anniversary celebration would be the special recognition awards for past Presidents of NCS and Computer Professionals Registration Council of Nigeria (CPN); past Provosts of NCS; past Registrars and Executive Secretaries of CPN and NCS respectively; the first registered member of NCS with registration number (MRN 00001) and the fortieth registered member of NCS with registration number MRN 00040, as well as corporate organisations that have been supportive of the activities of NCS during the years in different categories. The Chairman, Publicity Committee at NCS, Mr. Femi Williams, said the special recognition would be held during the NCS 2018 National Information Technology Merit Awards (NITMA), which comes up November 16.