* Pinnick says FIFA has approved Keshi Stadium for int’l matches Delta State Governor, Senator Dr Ifeanyi Okowa has described the first international flight into the Asaba International Airport as momentous as it brought back the Super Eagles from South Africa after qualifying for the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON).
Okowa spoke yesterday morning while receiving the Super Eagles on arrival at the Asaba Airport after their AFCON 2019 qualifying match with South Africa in Johannesburg on Saturday sfternoon.
Okowa who spoke through his Chief of Staff, Hon. Tam Brisibe, stated, “this is momentous bearing in mind that the flight successfully took the Super Eagles to South Africa and came back without hitches.
“It is more gratifying to note that the Super Eagles trained at the Stephen Keshi Stadium before leaving for South Africa through the Asaba Airport; they went to South Africa and qualified for Cameroon 2019,” the governor noted.
He added, “the principal thing was qualifying for Cameroon and by God’s grace, we have qualified for AFCON 2019. We congratulate the Super Eagles for making Nigeria proud.”
President of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Amaju Pinnick revealed that he was excited that FIFA has approved the Stephen Keshi Stadium for an international match adding that it was a thing of pride for the Super Eagles to travel through the Asaba International Airport.
“When it was announced yesterday that we are boarding and flying to Asaba, it gave me great joy. It shows that God rules supreme in Delta State. We have qualified for AFCON and we are going to Cameroon to make great impact,” Pinnick said. He emphasised thanked the Governor and the people of Delta State for their show of enthusiasm and hospitality since Eagles moved there to train for the game against South Africa and the friendly against Uganda on Tuesday. “The stadium is wonderful and the Super Eagles will beat Uganda in the friendly match tomorrow. It is a big match if you remember that the Ugandans have also qualified for AFCON 2019.”
Special Project Director of Asaba International Airport, Chief Austin Ayomedejo, was full of joy that the airport has been upgraded to Category C. “I feel excited, we give God the glory for using the Governor of Delta State, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa to achieve this great feat. What is more important is that we have been upgraded to Category C airport, which allows bigger aircraft to land here,” he concluded. 