The Oyo State Government has said that it has intensified efforts to advance its security network towards increased check on robbery and other criminal activities in the state. Governor Abiola Ajimobi made the disclosure Tuesday during a security meeting at the House of Chiefs, Secretariat in Ibadan. Ajimobi, who was represented by his deputy, Chief Moses Adeyemo, said the state would continue to support all security agencies in the state to achieve their primary functions. The security meeting was attended by representatives of financial institutions and heads of security agencies in the state. The governor said the essence of the meeting was to evolve anticipatory approach needed towards countering or forestalling any possible crime in the state. “Before the inception of our administration, insecurity in form of armed robberies, arson and other violent crimes as well as lawlessness from nefarious activities of area boys were the order of the day. “It is with pride that I can inform you that there has been no successful armed robbery in any bank in Oyo State since our assumption and we intend to keep the status quo. “This meeting is convened in reaction to an observation of a noticeable increase in the activities of criminals in neighbouring states,” he said. He said that the prevailing peaceful atmosphere in the state was due to zero tolerance for crime by this administration and the commitment of the state government to combating crime. “We achieved this through steps such as the establishment of Oyo State Joint Security Patrol Squad code named ‘Operation Burst’ as well as the setting up of the Oyo State Security Trust Fund. “The monthly State Security Council Meeting has also allowed for a robust review of the activities of all the agencies in keeping the state abreast of all challenges,” he said. The governor said that the administration also embraced the safe city project, which utilised cutting edge technology solutions to nip crime and criminality in the bud. He confirmed that the installation of closed circuit television (CCTV) in black spots and business districts in the city to monitor activities of criminals had been completed and now operational. “This is in realisation of the fact that it is only where there is peace that development can occur. The main goal of this administration is to better the lot of the citizenry,” he said. Ajimobi called on the stakeholders to support government in providing an investor friendly environment that would increase the economic profile of the state. Chief Adebayo Adelabu, the Chairman, Oyo State Security Trust Fund (OYSSTF), said the meeting was in line with the mission of the trust fund to ensure security of life and property. Adelabu, who was represented by Mr Femi Oyedipe, the Executive Secretary of OYSSTF, said the meeting would find solution to checking any form of crime in the state.(NAN)