Disney Africa announced the African launch of the Mickey the True Original campaign, joining the global festivities honouring nine decades of Mickey Mouse, his heritage, personality and status as a pop-culture icon. As November 18, 2018 marks 90 years since his first appearance in Steamboat Willie in November 1928, a series of world-wide celebrations will be taking place this year and Africa is no different. The campaign will come to life with engaging content and events that embrace Mickey’s impact on the past, present and future. The local festivities kick off in earnest this month, leading up to Mickey’s 90th anniversary on November 18, 2018 and beyond. Mickey’s 90th Spectacular, a two-hour prime-time special, will be screened on M-Net 101 later this year.
The elegant affair will feature star-studded musical performances, moving tributes and never-before-seen short films. Superstars from music, film and television will join the birthday fun for the internationally beloved character. In addition, there will be special programming on Mickey’s birthday across Disney Channel (DStv, Channel 303), Disney XD (DStv, Channel 304) and Disney Junior (DStv, Channel 309, GOtv, 60). “Binding generations together more than any other animated character, Mickey Mouse is the ‘True Original’, who reminds people of all ages of the benefits of laughter, optimism and hope. With his universal appeal and ability to emotionally connect with generations all over the world, no other character quite occupies a similar space in the hearts and minds of a global fan base and we are thrilled to be sharing these festivities,” said Christine Service, Senior Vice President and Country Manager of The Walt Disney Company Africa. Mickey’s birthday is celebrated in honour of the release of his first theatrical film, Steamboat Willie, on November 18, 1928, at the Colony Theatre in New York City. Since then, he has starred in more than 100 cartoons and can currently be seen on Disney Channel (DStv, Channel 303) in the Mickey Mouse cartoon series and on Disney Junior (DStv, Channel 309 and GOtv, 60) in Mickey and the Roadster Racers.