In line with his administration’s vision to develop the rural areas in accordance with the government’s four-point agenda, Enugu State Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi has awarded contracts for another set of development projects across the state, totaling over N1 billion. Briefing newsmen after the meeting of the State Executive Council (EXCO), the Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Greg Nnaji, stated that the projects duly considered and approved by the council include the extension of the construction of Ogurute-Mkpamute – Igogoro-Ikpamodo-Okpo-Amaja road and the Ogurute – Umuogbo-Umuokpu-Ette road, both in Igbo-Eze North Local Government Area of the state. Nnaji noted that the present administration had constructed phase one of the two roads, adding that the newly awarded projects were the phase two. Also approved for rehabilitation/construction, according to the works commissioner, were selected roads in Igbo-Etiti LGA, namely, the 9th Mile-Makurdi expressway – Community Secondary School road, Ozalla; the Akaibute-Ohebe Dim-Aku road and the St. Mary’s Catholic Church-Ezi Ukehe-Afia Four-Umurusi road. On the Ozalla community road, he explained that the council “approved that an access road be created for the people, saying: “We are taking the first phase of that road into the community and it is going to be classified as a rural feeder road”. Nnaji further explained that the Akaibute-Ohebe Dim-Aku road will be rehabilitated while the St. Mary’s Catholic Church – Ezi Ukehe-Afia Four-Umurusi road was classified as “a full construction which entails site preparation, earthwork, drainages, pavement and surfacing”. The works commissioner added that the council equally approved the rehabilitation/construction of the second phase of Ugbawka-Nara-Nkerefi road in Nkanu East LGA, pointing out that the project was an extension of the first phase of the road. Other development projects approved by the council were the renovation of Enugu State Library, Enugu; rehabilitation of Amechi Uwani road, Awkunanaw, Enugu South LGA and the completion work on the Bailey bridge across Nyama River connecting Amechi Uno/Obeagu communities in Enugu South LGA. In his brief remark, the Commissioner for Information, Mr. Ogbuagu Anikwe, announced that Enugu State emerged the best state in ICT development in Nigeria according to the recent rating by the National Council on Communications Technology.