Shola Oyeyipo in Abuja House of Representatives member and son of a former governor of Oyo State, late Alhaji Lamidi Adesina, Hon Adedapo Lam-Adesina, has said that he dumped the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) due to high level of impunity and lack of internal democracy. Last week Tuesday, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara, officially announced during plenary that Hon. Lam-Adesina representing Ibadan North-east/South-east federal constituency of Oyo State, Hon. Dada Awoleye, also from Oyo State, Segun Williams from Ogun State and Lawali Hassan from Zamfara State had dumped the APC. While Lam-Adesina moved to the African Democratic Council (ADC), Awoleye joined the Accord Party (AP) and Williams and Hassan joined the Labour Party (LP) and the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) respectively. Speaking with THISDAY on why he dumped APC, Lam-Adesina, who had earlier said his father will not forgive him if he remained in APC with Governor Abiola Ajimobi, said he had left the party even before the party primaries due to tendency for impunity. “It was a very dark period for democracy in my state, Oyo State. Today, people are jumping from one political party to another based on personal interest and some to secure ticket in different parties but in my case I left APC long before primaries were conducted. “So, for me, it is not a question of whether I was not going to get the party’s ticket. I was very sure of getting a ticket but I decided I won’t be part of the impunity that was going on in my state as regards the APC. I am now a member of the ADC and I am contesting to represent my people in the same constituency that I am representing now. “APC is a party with the highest level of impunity. It is anti-people and I would not want to run on that platform; that is talking of Oyo State.” According to him, his membership of the eighth assembly has presented him with the opportunity to represent the people of his constituency well and as such, he is optimistic that the he would be re-elected. “I have tried my best and I hope to surpass my present performance if returned back to the house. If anything would be different it has to be better than what I did in the past, so, people should expect more vibrant representation, development of people in the grassroots, certainly things would naturally get better,” Adesina assured the people.