Mary Nnah The Simba Group has reinstated its commitment to the general empowerment of women. The group made this disclosure during its recent participation in the celebration of the Day of the Girl Child event held in Abuja, between October 17 and 18. The programme, organised by the National Centre for Women Development in collaboration with The Office of the Wife of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, included a number of activities ranging from cultural events and debates on the proposed action plans for the benefit of women in Nigeria. Business Head of Simba Group, Mr Manish Rohtagi, who spoke about the group’s commitment to the empowerment of Nigerian women, said the company has in the past been involved in various initiatives in this area, including enhancing access to education, creating employment opportunities and training. He said further that the group has been commended for their Queen Rider’s Programme – an initiative aimed at enhancing access to Mini Entrepreneurship for women, though the ownership and/or operation of Keke (tricycles), under their flagship brand TVS King.
He said the group is also involved in enhancing access to education through their “The Greatest Gift” programme, which provides bicycles to girls so that they can move easily to and from school. Whilst making a donation of 24 bicycles on behalf of the Simba Group, Rohtagi added, “the key path to empowerment of women is access to education for girls. And when it comes to access, actually being able to reach the school is obviously fundamental.
“Our programme is based on the very strong belief that a bicycle can help alleviate the challenges girls face to go to and from school based on examples in Kenya, India and other places.” Speaking further, Rohtagi stressed the importance of both the public and private sectors playing their part in such initiatives with the ultimate aim being to provide bicycles to every girl child, particularly in areas where the distance between home and school is great. He cited data that showed that the ease a bicycle provides in the commute to school and back, greatly increases the education levels in a country and this translates to an overall societal and economic impact on that nation.
Among their other products, Simba also displayed their Farmtrac tractors, motorcycles and the XL100 – a rugged motorcycle designed uniquely for rough roads and rural customers. Over 1, 5000 girls from Abuja participated with great enthusiasm in the event, among other women.