Duro Ikhazuagbe Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) top scorer, Junior Lokosa, was tHURSday presented with Eunisell’s N3.8million and trophy. The Kano Pillars hitman who scored 19 goals in 24 matches of the abridged 2018 NPFL season was honoured with N200,000 for each of the goal by Eunisell, the shirt sponsor of NPFL club Rivers United. At a brief but impressive ceremony at Radisson Blu Hotel in Ikeja yesterday, Lokosa who was accompanied to the event by his mother and some Kano Pillars team mates was thrilled receiving the cheque and trophy from Eunisell, a chemical and allied products specialist company. “This is a big honour to be recognised for my performance in the NPFL last season and I want to thank the sponsor (Eunisell) for their kind gesture,” Lokosa told reporters while grinning with excitement. The player who has been capped once by Nigeria in the international friendly with DR Congo urged Eunisell to sustain the incentive as it would bring out the best in players plying their skills in the domestic scene. “This is no doubt a big plus for the NPFL and I hope it will be sustained for a long time as it will definitely bring out the best in we the players and improve the quality of the league. “I want to thank my teammates at Kano Pillars for their support as they made it possible for me to win this award. I hope to win more individual and team accolades in future,” gushed Lokosa who looked resplendent in his grey suit. Speaking at the event, the Group Managing Director of Eunisell, Mr. Chika Ikenga, said that his company was honoured to present the award to Lokosa for his marksmanship in the NPFL. “Just as the entire nation comes to standstill when its football season, such is our fervent passion at Eunisell for football in Nigeria. We all get swept up in the excitement, the action, the goals, the clubs, the players and all the statistics,” stressed the Eunisell chief executive who promised to sustain the award. It is the hope of Ikenga that the Eunisell award will rekindle life back into the Nigerian topflight league. Lokosa joined Kano Pillars from First Bank FC during the second part of the 2016/2017 season and later became a key member of the squad following his goal scoring prowess. He was named in Nigeria’s provisional squad for the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia and is one of the five players in the stand-by list for the Super Eagles 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying fixture against South Africa and the friendly game against the Cranes of Uganda. Former Enyimba striker, Mfon Udoh holds the record of the most goals (23) scored in a single season in the NPFL.