Leading diaper brand, Pampers has announced the launch of a new product, ‘Pampers Pants’ in the market. Coming with innovative features, Pampers Pants could be pull on and removed by tearing the sides, providing a quick and hassle-free solution to diaper changing. The new product was launched with a TV Ad, featuring , brand ambassador, Tiwa Savage and son, Jamil. In the 30 seconds testimonial Ad, Tiwa shares her experience of using Pampers Pants for Jamil when he became mobile and active and wouldn’t sit still. Her words: “Hey guys, once they are mobile, they just never sit still, especially for changing time. That is when it’s time for Pampers Pants; they fit all round, they pull on easily, even when they are really lively and they are just this dry. But hey, don’t take my word for it. Now that they are so active, try new Pampers Pants for yourselves.” Pampers Communications Manager, Procter and Gamble, Tomiwa Ajewole, Nigeria, explained that its latest was a product of an extensive research, which was also to ease the struggle of change time. “At Pampers, we remain committed to baby’s happy and healthy development, that is why we focus on delivering the best and innovative products for babies so we can continue to deliver on our promise of superior dryness and protection. “We understand the struggle that parents go through trying to change diaper for their babies/toddlers when they have started crawling or learning to walk. “Our latest is an innovative form of diapers that are easy to pull-on and specially designed for active babies, thus enabling parents to quickly change their babies, even as their babies carry on with playtime,” the company said. He added that the new product provides same superior dryness for up to 12 hours. “ It comes with the same assurances on trusted dryness that parents already love from Pampers. It is the first and only pants with extra absorbing channels that help distribute wetness evenly and lock it away, ensuring babies wake up happy and dry. ” he remarks. The new diaper comes in sizes 3-5 and boasts features like flexible waistband, breathable softbelt and cuffs,extra absorb channels amongst others