*Invites Pinnick as Special Guest President of Cape Verde soccer federation, Mario Semedo, has declared that his country would early next year host the maiden edition of the Africa Youth Cup in grand style. Semedo who spoke exclusively to newsreporters.ng a Lagos based online publication said finishing touches are already being put to preparations for the event with about six months to the youth soccer fiesta billed to take place in Praia. The Africa Youth Cup is an international soccer tournament for both male and female teams to be held annually in Cape Verde (Cabo Verde). The maiden edition is slated to run from April 19-27 2019. The tournament is open to all teams from around the world, offering both African content and a blend of Western,South American and Asian flavors. Semedo said Cape Verde is putting forward her best facilities for the tournament which is Africa’s version of Iber Cup, Gothia Cup and other such big international youth tournaments in Europe and Latin America. “We want the Africa Youth Cup to become a world-class youth soccer fiesta. The government of Cape Verde through the Sports Ministry is involved in it. “The Mayor of Praia, the municipality of Sao Domingos, the management of Estadio Nacional de Cabo Verde, our Olympic Committee are all involved in it and as a soccer federation we are driving it with Serahanasports serving as our partners. “Serahanasports is an outfit that has been involved in several youth tournaments and knows what to do to deliver a memorable event. We are going to make our visitors see and enjoy the beauty city of Praia and our country Cape Verde. “We are already training local and international volunteers that would make our visitors feel at home,” Semedo said. He stated that the first Vice President of CAF, Amaju Melvin Pinnick has been handed a special invitation for the opening ceremony. “We would love to have Amaju as our special guest during the opening ceremony,” Semedo said. The youth teams of SL Benfica (Portugal), Vasco Da Gama (Brazil) Kegue FC (Togo) and Academies FC Bamako (Mali) have been confirmed for the tournament after completing their registration formalities.