By Azeez Abdulrauf PZ Wilmar has announced an addition to its brand portfolio, as it recently launched its seasoning products under its existing brands, Mamador and Devon King’s. The products were introduced to trade partners and consumers at a trade launch event in Ibadan, Oyo State. The Mamador seasoning debuts in three variants – Classic, Beef, and Chicken, while the Devon King’s seasoning comes in Classic Tomato, Beef, and Chicken variants – as they are set to compete in the Nigerian markets. Mamador5g Seasoning Cubes boast health benefits as the company said it contains a 15 per cent Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) of Zinc and Iron, while Devon King’s 5g Seasoning Cubes gives provides Nigerians with tastier meals at a lower cost with its ‘added tomato’. Both brands of seasoning cubes give consumers 25 per cent more volume than other seasoning cubes at competitive prices. Speaking at the trade launch event, the Category Marketing Manager, Chioma Mbanugo, reiterated that PZ Wilmar’s commitment to providing Nigerians with healthy and tasty cooking options at affordable prices through its new line of seasonings would signal a seismic shift in the seasoning market category. “We ventured into the seasoning category to offer Nigerians much healthier, valuable and affordable options, something different from the norm, as our seasoning cubes all come in five grams as opposed to the four grams currently available in today market. “By studying and analysing the needs of Nigerians as regards food products, we developed these seasoning variants to help fulfil our consumers’ nutrition needs by delivering on delicious and rich tastes. While both brands serve different purposes, they both deliver on the signature PZ Wilmar quality, and will certainly ensure that consumers can now create authentic dishes that are rich in taste, flavour and nutritional value. “More importantly, these seasoning brands will be available to Nigerians at competitive prizes, so everyone can taste the difference,” she said. PZ Wilmar,a joint venture with PZ Cussons was formed in December 2010 with the ambition to establish food ingredients consumer brand, developing a range of edible cooking oils – providing quality, healthy cooking oils to Nigerian families through Mamador and Devon King’s at affordable prices. The company is now set to provide these same qualities through the Mamador and Devon King’s seasoning range, ensuring the total nourishment of Nigerian families. Following a successful trade launch in Ibadan, both brands would also be making similar debuts across the various market regions in the country as they rally trade partners, key distributors and consumers alike, while spreading information and driving trade excitement for the new Mamador and King’s seasoning range. The trade launch event was hosted by veteran artiste, Alariwo, who played the perfect host as Key Distributors, Wholesalers & Retailers as well as brands representatives resident within and outside Ibadan were all present for the event.