Oluchi Chibuzor The South-west overseer of Rhema Deliverance Mission, Dr. Anene Nwachukwu, has called on politicians to stop putting their ambition first at the detriment of the general well-being of the populace in the forthcoming general elections. Nwachukwu gave the admonition at church annual convention 2018 and the dedication of the multi-million Rhema International Prophetic Centre, with a theme: “Faithful God.” He said his visit to Solomon’s temple in 2010, gave him the vision to build a replica of the sanctuary and the magnificent edifice God has helped them to build in Nigeria. Anene further added that churches should empower their members economically and spiritually to withstand the current realities in the country, stressing that he believed that Christianity should be about bearing one another’s burden as one member of Christ’s body. He noted that the church support over 200 widows among other roles the church has embarked on. According to him: “I always tell politicians in my church that great leaders think about next generation, but politicians think about the next election, i always tell them that whatever you are doing you must do it right. Take for example if we spiritual leaders are telling the politicians the truth, our roads will not be the way it is, our economy will not be as it is- if you look at the economy you will see that things has really fallen below standards”. “Nigerians are suffering, there is high level of poverty in the land and citizens are yearning for change and because the change we expected we are not seeing, we are believing God that Nigeria will have a change of government in 2019”. He noted. Earlier the Presiding Bishop, Pinnacle Redeemed Mission, Nnewi, Dr. Louis Morah, said “the situation in the country demand divine invention from God, as expectation of attaining new age is not been realize because of ethnicity and tribalism since independence from colonial masters”. He explained In her views the representative of Anambra state governor, governor Willie Obiano, Anambra Liaison officer, Lagos, Mrs. Uloma Wise, gave kudos to the quality of works at the church centre, acknowledging that the new sanctuary we give room for propagation of God’s kingdom.