By Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti The Ekiti State government has threatened to proscribe the state chapters of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) and Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) if they refuse to stop their unhealthy rivalry. The Deputy Governor of the state, Chief Bisi Egbeyemi, who gave the warning Monday at the signing of the peace accord by the leadership of the two drivers’ unions, said nobody would be allowed to disrupt the peace of the state. In a statement by his Special Assistant (Media), Odunayo Ogunmola, the two unions expressed satisfaction with the term of the peace deal brokered by the state government. The NURTW Chairman, Mr. Oso Farotimi, and his RTEAN counterpart, Chief Rotimi Olanbiwonnu, led other officials of the union to sign the peace
agreement. The peace accord was sequel to a meeting held by the deputy governor with the representatives of the two unions on 6th November to find a lasting solution to violent clashes among their members. The deputy governor advised members of the two unions to see themselves as brothers and not as enemies in the pursuit of their daily bread. Egbeyemi said the full weight of the law will be visited on any union member who unleashes mayhem in the name of inter-union rivalry, adding that the peace of the state remains paramount to the Kayode Fayemi administration. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Office of the Deputy Governor, Mr. Lanre Ogunjobi and Special Assistant (Political) to the Deputy Governor, signed as witnesses to the peace agreement. The union members, who signed the agreement under a convivial atmosphere, pledged their commitment to the implementation of the terms in the interest of peace of the state. The terms of agreement stipulate that each union should collect their dues from their respective members. It was also agreed that the money realised from the patrol on Ikare route and all other routes shall be jointly shared by both unions. It was also resolved that each union should maintain their parks, that is, where they are now stationed without trespassing to another park. The two unions in accepting the terms of the agreement pledged to abide by all the conditions stated above. The two unions pledged that any union that causes disturbances/riots in Ekiti State shall be banned. They also resolved with government representatives that any union that violates any of the conditions shall be sanctioned.