By Sunday Ehigiator Phillips Consulting, one of the leading consulting firms in Africa, has pointed out that transformation and change remain constant in leading organisations, noting that it is typically a bitter pill to swallow especially for a consulting business. The Senior Partner, Strategy and Operations Transformation, Francis Buamah said this at the sixth Human Resources Directors Network, hosted by Phillips Consulting in Lagos recently. This year’s event had the theme: “Leadership and Innovation.” Buamah added that, “For Phillips Consulting, this is an opportunity to redefine ourselves and services to be relevant in this digital economy.” While addressing participants, the Chairman of Phillips Consulting, Foluso Phillips, explained how leaders could drive business performance through Digital Transformation while Managing Director of ABInBev, Mrs. Annabelle Degroot, delivered the second paper on ‘Workspaces with Purpose’ explaining how potential and productivity can be unlocked by creating purpose driven workplaces. The event was attended by over 60 HR directors in Nigeria. Managing Director of Phillips Consulting, Robert Taiwo stated that “the core themes of digital transformation and the purpose driven workforce are more pertinent now than ever before. “New technologies can drive competitive advantage and stimulate job creation for young people. This is especially important in a country where 62 per cent of the population is under the age of 25,” he added. Meanwhile, the Senior Partner, People Transformation, Paul Ayim lauded the HR Directors Network for setting the pace in organising such high-profile capacity building events for its members. “This is one of the few learning events that is well attended by very senior executives,” Ayim said. The HR Directors Network is a gathering of HR executives that facilitates innovative and thought-leadership knowledge sharing sessions for members. The event provided learning and networking opportunities for HR directors towards enhancing their knowledge and building professional relationships that are mutually beneficial. Meanwhile, Philip Consulting at the event rolled out its training and digital learning plan for organisations in 2019 Addressing journalists, Ayim said: “We are here to lunch our 2019 calendar/training program. Philip consulting as an organistaion has being in business for about 26 years now. “About a year ago and up till this date, we refreshed our services and brand. Today we have three major divisions and two other that cuts across all services. You may have heard about the wave of changing customer experiences through digital means and various technologies used today. “A lot of organisations who have had the opportunity to experience and witness what we do here, either by training of staffs, our consultation, have left with so much impact.”