In line with its aim of educating, mentoring and empowering women as catalyst for national development, the Women in Successful Career (WISCAR) has concluded plans to hold a leadership and mentoring conference at the MUSON Centre, Lagos on November 24, 2018. The conference with the theme, ‘Enriching Lives by telling our own Stories’, will feature the immediate past President of Liberia, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, who will deliver the keynote address. According to the organisation, under Sirleaf’s leadership, Liberia was the only country out of 54 in Africa to improve in every single category and sub-category of the Ibrahim Index of African Governance. “Since leaving office in 2017, she has become a highly acclaimed motivator and advocate for peace and justice and she continues to be a force for meaningful change and progress in Africa. “During this pivotal moment in our nation’s history and in keeping with this year’s theme, we seek to have our lives enriched by actively listening to her stories and wisdom. All Nigerians have a lot to learn from her as an African leader, a successful politician and as a stateswoman.” Briefing journalists in Lagos recently, the founder and Chief Executive officer (CEO) of WISCAR, Mrs. Amina Oyagbola called for the inclusion of women in political and professional careers as this contributes to nation building. She said the population of women in the country is about fifty per cent, adding, ”women are agents of positive policy change which improves the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of the country, This we achieve through our mentoring programmes geared towards building their capacity in various careers to aid them to reach the top of their goals.” Speaking on the conference, Oyagbola stated: “This year, we have carefully selected a theme that builds on our core focus on mentorship. The mentor is a storyteller, one who draws on her own life experience as tools and signposts to provide guidance on what to do, what to avoid doing, and ways to do it successfully. We have invited President Johnson to share her wealth of experience in governance, mentorship, empowerment and nation building. “In many parts of West Africa, the ‘Griot’ is an oral historian, a repository of oral traditions and communal achievements. President Sirleaf’s role as keynote speaker is to be the ‘Griot’ of our political advancement. She added: “We expect the conference to spur change in women and for women. To improve the level of participation and contribution of 50 per cent of our population to the extent required for our nation to become a first world country. We expect the stories our mentees hear to enrich them enough for them to become change makers for their families, their communities and the nation at large. The positive changes we sow will surely be reaped in a brighter, more peaceful and more progressive future for Nigeria and Africa at large.” WISCAR’s Executive Secretary, Fabia Ogunmekan said recommendations from the conference will be published in a communiqué to drive the required legal, cultural and policy changes for growth and national development.