From Yinka Kolawole, Osogbo Obafemi Awolowo University OAU, Ile-Ife has blamed the denial of the institution accreditation of some courses on the National University Commission’s existing regulation that does not allow for back to back interim status. It would be recalled that Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) had recently announced that OAU candidates who applied to study Law, Dentistry, Fine and Applied Arts, Botany and Family Nutrition and Consumer Sciences for the 2018/2019 academic session should either change course or university due to non-accreditation by the National Universities Commission (NUC). A statement released to THISDAY by the Public Relations Officer of the institution, Mr. Abiodun Olanrewaju noted that OAU and other affected institutions were denied accreditation because of the existing NUC regulation which does not allow for back to back interim status. He posited that the general accreditation exercise was conducted across all universities in December, 2017 and the non-accreditation of some programmes cut across all universities and is not peculiar to OAU. “There are 106 programmes in the university of which the five mentioned above have issues with accreditation. Although all these programmes actually had interim status during the last exercise. “The university management is working assiduously to address the issues raised by the NUC. It therefore has no doubt that the affected programmes will be restored hopefully in the forthcoming accreditation exercise slated for November, 2018. We hereby use this medium to officially appreciate the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETfund) for the prompt release of funds to upgrade the existing structures and facilities in the University. “We appreciate the concern of all stakeholders, particularly parents/guardians and prospective students on this development and plead for their understanding.” He stressed that the institution will continue to do all within its power to uphold and build upon the academic excellence for which the University is known.