SHOWBIZ Nollywood actor and producer, Kola Amusan is a brother to renowned Yoruba actor, movie producer and veteran, Bolaji Amusan, popularly known as Baba Latin. He talks to Tosin Clegg about venturing into Nollywood and his new movie, African  Queen I have been in the industry since 2003 What that means is that I oversee a lot of the strategic implementations of the initiatives we put on the ground. So right now, I have more of a production and content background. I used to manage a production studio in Los Angeles. And I’m really trying to revamp the brand of Silverbird and energise some youths in the company. I have been in this job for seven months now I’m the new kid on the block, and no longer active at the studio in Los Angeles, but we have various film and TV projects we work on out there that are still in their early stages. The studio in LA creates local contents for the U.S. and South American markets as well. There is a lot of room for growth in Nigerian productions Over the last five to 10 years, we have seen massive improvements. If you look at the overall quality of films and TV productions in Nigeria, you’ll see it has greatly improved. It really comes down to our lack of infrastructure, as anywhere around the world, in LA or UK, you may attend a school that’s been there for 50 or 60 years or may understudy a director that’s worked on 30 different projects. So, there is just a wealth of knowledge that exists out there, and we are still in the early stages in Nigeria but I feel like in the next five years we would be producing contents that you wouldn’t be able to tell if  I have been in the industry since 2003. I have produced two Yoruba movies, Eyin Ookan and Isijibo, shot in 2008 and 2009 respectively. The third and recent one is African Queen, which is in English and was shot this year. My passion for movie as a kid I had a passion for movie when I was a kid but I was very shy while growing up. I finally delved into acting in 2003 with the help of my brother Bolaji Amusan popularly known as Mr. Latin. He lives in Abeokuta and I remember he usually came to a location in Lagos for Erinkeke, a series comedy by Babatunde Omidina (Baba Suwe). So, whenever he was in Lagos, I would meet him at Simpson Street, Ebute Meta. That encouraged me to develop myself in front of my mirror. Also, I’m a great fan of RMD; I watch him a lot. In 2003, I took that bold step and called my brother that I would like to act, coincidentally, he was producing a movie and he asked me to come, and my first appearance ever was as a police officer. Mr. Latin is known for comedy roles, but I don’t do comedy on screen. Though some friends say I’m funny, but I don’t think I can really convince people to laugh. My brother has contributed to my success When I joined the industry in 2003, I travelled every week from Lagos to Abeokuta for rehearsals because that’s where Mr. Latin lives. At that time, I used to have a business centre in FESTAC where I was born, bred and brought up. In my business centre, I sell recharge cards and make phone call. I remember I make a minute call for N35 when GSM just got to Nigeria and I also used a landline. I was making money then until I got into acting, and travelling to Abeokuta every week caused me my business. At some point, I moved in with him but things did not work as planned. Mr. Latin has just started making his name and was becoming a household name. So, I understand he needed to concentrate on building his own name and that there wouldn’t be an avenue for him to help me build mine. I endured for two years and I returned to Lagos. There and then, I eventually enrolled in Kunle Afod oriented group called Legacy Caucus where I started my career in full. Gradually I started writing scripts, making movie soundtracks and also handling production. I really did achieve much before I travelled out of the country. People only say I’m the finer version of Mr. Latin He’s not a competitor, so people hardly compare or make a contrast. He’s one of the many actors that have travelled far and wide and he has so many connections internationally. He asked me some time ago if I would like to visit South Africa and I said I wouldn’t mind. He tried to get me South African Visa but it did not work out then. After a few months, he notified me of a show he would be having in America. It’s a show that involved Adekunle Shefiu Alao and his band and Mr. Latin would be performing too, so he included my name and Odun Adekola’s to perform alongside with him on stage. That’s the process of how I got to America and ever since the Lord has been good to me, so I appreciate him (Mr. Latin) for including my name in this list. What makes my new movie different? Firstly, it’s in English, compared to the first two movies. The script has been in my archive for almost a decade, I remember I have taken proposals to some corporate bodies to co-produce the movie but nobody was ready to help them. What they feared is, my name is not well known and they didn’t want to risk doing business with an upcoming producer. But today, I thank God for giving me the opportunity to achieve the unachievable. I also used veteran actors- Segun Arinze, Tina and Norbert Young- I never thought I would work with because I never thought I would be able to pay them when I had the script newly. My production crew was also the best I have worked with Technically inclined, but as you know, there will always be some weed in the middle of the wheat. I still did not regret any of what went wrong because it’s an eye opener for me as I’m just coming back into the industry after six years. I used sophisticated equipment, such as two Black magic ursa mini, my lighting equipment was what I have been dreaming of, finally, the post-production came out just the way I wanted it, the colour was so good and I envisage winning an award for this. African Queen is an achievement for me and it’s going to the cinema and will start showing from September 7, this year. The cast are awesome We see Segun Arinze playing the role of Alhaji Dasuki, who is a Minister and he actually killed the role; Tina Mba is the wife and made a good translation of her role as well; Norbert Young is an Area Commander and he couldn’t have done better; Ninolowo Bolanle is a leader of a kidnap group and I have never seen him act like this before, which is different from the love story he usually does; Kayode Olaiya popularly known as Aderupoko also plays the role of a commercial driver, he has been in many cinema movies but he nailed it in this one. We used both Abeokuta and Lagos but we faced a lot of challenges during the production. You know it’s not easy bringing different people from different backgrounds, different orientation, different mindset, different drives and many more, bringing them together on a set. But eventually, our goal was achieved. Baba Latin and I planned the project but he’s a busy person that does so many other stuffs aside acting. Despite the fact, we did the production in his present home (Abeokuta) and also used his students for some of my crew and actors. He wasn’t too much available at that time, I guess he was into politics and having meetings upon meetings. Even during my first two Yoruba movies, he was not available and I replaced him with Pa James Ajirebi and Muyiwa Adegoke Londoner, respectively. I adopt any language to get my message across I also want to get my message out there and so I adopt any language that helps me do that. In African Queen, we have Hausa there as well. I am making a globally accepted movie and so it always depends on the script. I’m not ruling out producing Yoruba movies. African Queen has been in my archive for many years. Been married for five years now My wife is God-sent, she’s my Angel, and she made me who I am today. She married me unconditionally, when I was struggling, when I was still paying all the debt I borrowed from Nigerian banks to travel. She continually stood by me, even during the planning of Africa Queen, she is always supportive. All these make my home blissful and my marriage worth it. Marital life is sweet. It made me more responsible and profound in thinking what’s next. It’s a driving force.  My wife is a typical Nigerian living in America because she doesn’t even make me do anything in the house except for providing for the family. She’s so respectful, she serves my food and takes the empty plates when I’m done unlike other women here in America, they would say ‘who did you leave those plates for, am I your house help’. As the mother of our three kids, she’s never tired to do house chores, and sometimes I help her but you cannot do it better, you understand. America is my greener pastures I have been to Nigeria twice this year and will keep going back and forth because I’m returning to the industry in different and dynamic style. I intend to make an impact in Hollywood by making good movies and working with like minds and positive thinkers. I also love music I did a couple of soundtracks in movies before I travelled. So don’t be surprised when you see me collaborating with Asa, Simi or Dekunle Gold. I sing their kind of song, Jazz and Pop. GISTS Kemi ‘Lala’ Akindoju Bares it all in Naked The one-woman play, Naked had its last show for the second cycle on Sunday, 12th August 2018 in Lagos. The play, which tells the story of failure, pain, pushing the boundaries and the process of achieving success was first premièred at the Lagos Theatre Festival in March. With eight showings in total, the play was attended by Joke Silva, Olu Jacobs, Biola Alabi, Omotola Jalade-Ekeinde, Shaffy Bello, Pastor Tony Rapu, Ini Dima-Okojie, IK Osakioduwa, Funke Bucknor Obruthe, Nancy Isime and many more. From the first scene to the last, the character played by Kemi ‘Lala’ Akindoju takes her audience on a journey, in and out of her memories without losing them in either the present or the stories of her past that she tells. This vision was kick-started with the first showing of Naked free for young female actors to encourage them to face their challenges and steer them in the right direction. The play which was hosted by Lamide Akintobi, begins with a starlet whose make-up artist and stylist have disappeared on her. She takes matters into her own hands, with every action triggering a period or situation in her past. She keeps her audience glued to her every move, putting them at the forefront of her memories. There’s a shift in the ambience every time she loops in and out of her memories and secret tears are shed along with her as she unveils the abuse, pains and failures. The play has moments of laughter and tears with something everyone can relate to. Lala wields the stage in a way that only a seasoned thespian can, piloting the play to a victorious end. Chika Lann Rewards Fans in PVC Challenge Internet sensation and style icon, Chika Lann, has rewarded three fans for emerging winners of #chikalannpvcchallenge. The winners – Okeke Favour (@okeke_favour), Okafor Chinelo Ann (@queen_nellybae) and Scope the Entertainer (@iamscope_official) – emerged winners of the contest held, via a lucky dip, on her Instagram handle, @chikalann. The winners were awarded N100,000 each at a celebrity lunch at Oriental Hotel, Lagos last week. At the event, Chika Lann also honoured a loyal fan, Olubiri Chisom (c_iynest) whose wish was to meet her. Recall that Chika Lann caused a stir recently at Balogun Market, Lagos, when she walked through the streets of the market with a placard urging Nigerians to go get their Permanent Voters Cards (PVC). In a bid to generate a grass roots movement for her PVC awareness campaign, she organised an Instagram contest called #chikalannpvcchallenge which saw several people coming up with hilarious and breathtaking displays in streets and markets across the country. The contestants then posted the displays on Instagram. The PVC challenge generated over two hundred thousand views on Instagram within two weeks. Over 40 entries were submitted across the country. Reacting to why she took this initiative, she said, “many things led to this but I think the pivotal point was after the (recent) tanker crash (in Lagos) and the several loss of lives. You see, like everyone else, I complained bitterly on social media and then I realised that wouldn’t change anything. So I decided to take it to the streets. “I am simply awed by the level of creativity in the entries that I have received. So much that I wish I could reward every single entry. Nigeria is blessed with so much talent and I hope this challenge will not just end here but will be a catalyst that would trigger real change,” she said. My Story Blessing Osuagwu:  I Dance Salsa Professionally Blessing Osuagwu, a model and dancer shares her dream and plans with Tosin Clegg Who is Blessing Osuagwu? I am a model, a Latin dancer, in other words, I dance Salsa professionally and I’m into Public Relations. Tell us about your career? My career is something I never thought about because it just happened. The experience so far has been amazing; meeting so many people and networking is a whole lot of fun as there’s always something new to learn and talk about. What has been your success story so far? I have achieved a whole lot, especially when I was given the opportunity to be the lead cast in the Lagos State Governor’s campaign for His Excellency Akinwunmi Ambode. I met a lot of celebrities that also helped my profile. Who are your mentors and what other things do you do? My Mentor is Dr. Graeme Abernethy. I also work as a real estate consultant and brand ambassador for MobitooT. What’s special about you and how do you keep your body sparkling? For my amazing body and pretty face, a lot of water and healthy living keeps me going, making me younger every day.