The management of Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) yesterday donated food items and other relief materials to Ikoyi Prison inmates as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Its Chief Executive Officer, Mr Adeoye Fadeyibi, said the gesture was geared toward identifying with the inmates and also its little way of contributing to the environment where EKEDC does business. Fadeyibi, who was represented by the company’s Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Joseph Esenwa, said the company would continue to support Ikoyi prison initiatives to ensure conducive atmosphere for the inmates. According to him, the company, which is known for its humanitarian initiative, empowers and provides succour to the less privileged and the vulnerable in the society. “In line with our vision, I have come here to let the inmates know that we are not giving up on them, and that they have a bright future ahead outside of this place. “Whatever happens, they are still Nigerians, and needed to know that EKEDC cares for them and being made happy. “They still have a lot to contribute to the society irrespective of their present circumstances,” he said. Fadeyibi assured them that the company would assist the prison in renovating some of the buildings and also ensure prompt support for the inmates in terms of medicine and other needs. He urged the authorities of Ikoyi Prisons to also reach out to the company in case of their needs that could help the inmates’ wellbeing and development. In his remarks, the Deputy Controller of Prisons, Ogunshakin Ajiboye, who received the items on behalf of the inmates, commended the company’s gesture. Ajiboye, urged other Nigerians of goodwill and organisations to emulate the kind gesture to complement government’s effort in taking care of prisoners. “The welfare of prisoners is of paramount importance to the government, and any kind effort by organisations and kind hearted individuals will assist greatly in achieving that aim,” he stated. He explained that the prison which had a capacity of 800 now has over 3,012 inmates, saying it is too congested. According to him, the prison has a total number of 3,012 inmates. 2,532 are waiting trial while 479 have sentenced.