By Senator Iroegbu in Abuja The ‘Northsidekingz’ dance group from Kano has emerged overall winner in the seventh Korean pop (K-POP) dance competition with a chance to represent Nigeria in the 2018 World K-POP festival in South Korea. This year’s competition finale was held in Abuja with the winner claiming the new grand price of N500, 000 against N300,00 in past competitions. The Korean Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr. Lee In-tae,  said that  the group have qualified for the preliminary rounds to represent Nigeria at the world K-Pop festival in Korea alongside ‘Classic Royals’ dance group from Port Hacourt that won second place clinching N300, 000 reward. In-tae who noted that Nigeria is blessed with abundant talents said: ” I am happy that K-POP competition is providing a platform to promote creativity and entertainment, enabling Nigerian youths showcase their talents, improve their skills and prepare for future challenges and success. “This year’s competition witnessed a record submission of entries by professional crews and 30 crews initially contesting for a place in today’s final. The price money for the winner in the professional category is now half a million naira while 300,000 is now the prize for the winner in the school category.” Last year’s event was won by the ‘Fragiles Dance Crew’ who represented Nigeria in the 2017 K-POP world festival in Korea with commendable impact. But this year ’s edition of the K – POP competition that saw seven dance groups competing in the adult category and six others in the students category, cash rewards was also increased. The dance group ,’ Julimore’ won the students category with a cash reward of N300,000; while the ‘K-PODIANS boys’ and ‘K-PODIANS girls’ won first and second runner up with a cash prize of N200,000 and N100,000 respectively. Other contestants in the students category includes; K-Stromers girls, JSS Zuba and G.S.S. In the same vein, the adult category had; ‘Classic Royals’, ‘I am fly’ , ‘octupus’ all from port Harcourt, ‘Dance X intl’ from Calabar, ‘ ‘Northsidekingz’ (winner) from Kano, ‘J race’ from Jos and ‘The elites’ from Enugu who came third with N100,000 reward. K-POP dance competition is an annual dance competition where dance teams from across the country are free to participate. It aims to promote understanding and strengthen bilateral relations between Nigeria and Korea through cultural exchanges. 