Iyobosa Uwugiaren in Abuja Apparently still unhappy about the defection of the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) said the Senate President was not fit for his plum position. In a press statement signed by its Acting National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Yekini Nabena, the party said that in every democratic country, the position of the Senate President is one of the highest political offices, saying it is a position reserved for ‘’the best of the best, experienced and exemplary politicians’’ who by their character and conduct in public offices, the younger generation look up to as role models. According to APC, ‘’In terms of exemplary personage, the reverse is the case in respect of the current Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, who has been a dismal failure and has been involved in one controversy or the other – budget padding, filibustering, legislative rascality, sabotage of matters of national interest, among other criminalities too numerous to mention.’’ The ruling party claimed that having suffered under the 16-year misrule of PDP, Saraki will go down in our country’s history as the ‘’worst Senate President Nigeria’’ has had the misfortune to have. The party added, ‘’Since his usurpation of the coveted seat, achieved through a wicked conspiracy with members of the opposition PDP, it has been from one controversy to another – the Code of Conduct trial for false declaration of assets; conspiracy with his deputy to fraudulently alter the rules of the Senate and links to the deadly armed robbers who wasted many lives in the Offa robbery attack. It is alleged that some of the robbery suspects were his political thugs used to rig elections; a common adage says: Show me your friends and I will tell you who you are.” All over the world, the party further claimed, the leadership of the legislature is provided by the political party with majority members. It said Saraki in the absence of members of his former party, APC, connived and conspired with members of the opposition PDP to emerge Senate President, and in the process traded off the Deputy Senate President position to the opposition PDP. “Even at this time he has defected to the opposition PDP, and with APC still in the majority in the Senate, Dr. Saraki still has the impudence to present himself as the Senate President. Political ambition should be made of nobler stuff.”