SHOWBIZ FLAIR Fast-rising actress, Monica Friday, is one of the talented acts rocking the movie industry. Her role in the popular TV series ‘Do Good’ where she stars alongside renowned acts like Kate Henshaw, Basorge Tariah and a few others, shot her into the limelight. She speaks with Tosin Clegg, on her journey into acting, days of humble beginning, sex bait and lots more What I do I’m from Badagry in Lagos State I’m an actress, comedian and dancer. I was born and bred in Ajegunle, one of the most popular hoods in Nigeria. Pidgin is the original deal in Ajegunle, so it wasn’t difficult to flow, as a Warri girl on ‘Do Good.’ I have always loved the arts I never planned to be an actress, but I was active in drama and dance from childhood. I started attending auditions after my secondary school. I waka tire and the fake filmmakers were more than the real ones. But one good thing about me was that I was never desperate. Few producers offered me roles for sex and I flew away like a golden bird. So long as I am not stripping, every role is worth experimenting Every character is a unique being, but I love extremely tasking roles that will keep viewers glued to their screens. The most challenging role was playing the role of a Warri girl, it took me time to come on board with the perfect mannerism of a typical Warri girl but it was amazing. Works so far I have featured in countless movies as an extra: Hoodrush; A New Song; Timeless Passion; October 1st, to mention a few. However, through movie castings, production managers, production assistants and some filmmakers, I got other better offers and opportunities like, Dear Mother (series) Murder at Prime Suites (movie), First Lady (movie), Wives on Strike (movie) 2014, Abducted (short film), Savior (short film), Unspoken (movie) and more. Do Good was my Break The platform was huge; it was showing on 53 African countries. I have always loved the Arts, though I never planned to be an actress. I was active in drama and dance from childhood. I started attending auditions after my SSCE, but never had a direction because I was into different things, one of them was football. Acting became my foremost priority when I had a dream about a popular Nollywood legend. It’s something I hardly share, it is divine. It was just a clear vision that I belong here The popular legend I dreamt about was actually Liz Benson. How I got the role on ‘Do Good’ I went for an audition somewhere on the Island. When I was done with reading, a guy told me about another audition not too far from where I was. I had to hurry there immediately. I got there, read, and went through different rounds of rigorous castings! I got a call back, and signed the contract after days of fasting, waiting and praying. It was God. People I look forward to working with Joke  Sylva, Genevieve Nnaji, Stephanie Okereke, Mercy Johnson and a lot of amazing talents. The actor I had a crush on was Tyler Perry. The qualities of Nigerian movies in cinemas There are fantastic Nigerian movies showing in the cinemas. I think Nigerians need to grow with Nollywood. We are getting there. Big Brother is a show that reveals life from a different perspective I am a fan of the show. It’s a personal thing. That’s their level of understanding, and value. Also, I see myself doing great in Hollywood soon. I have fond memories of growing up The priceless moments we shared when we sleep outside the house, leaving the doors open without fear of anyone or anything. Life has changed, but fame hasn’t deprived me of nothing really. I hawked beans aka “Ewa Agonyi”, Abodo, aka “Donkunu” I hawked food on the streets while growing up. Looking back I have no regrets because they were phases that gave birth to today. Well, it could have been better but it wasn’t the worst. What has those two kinds of life taught you? These two things taught me to be super productive and wise. At what stage do you see yourself getting married? Marriage doesn’t have a particular stage, as long as a woman is not under 18. I see myself getting married even before you publish this interview. Kind of man I want to settle down with The man God desires for me. His is definitely going to be perfect. I have no specifications at all, as the blessings of God do not add sorrow. I am getting a complete man. It will be a total package oh my dear. My most valuable fashion accessory Bracelets. It has magical way of adding class to one’s look and most importantly the wrist. I prefer bracelets to wrist watches.