Entrepreneur extraordinaire and fashion goddess, Toyin Lawani, absorbs the eyes in a recent half-nude picture of herself she posted on Instagram to advertise one of her beauty products. Omolabake Fasogbon writes that the CEO of Tiannah’s Glow is pulling all stops to get her brand to bestride the beauty world Bold and daring Toyin Lawani is one that can be comfortably described as a jack of all trades, but a master in all. The University of Lagos English graduate is an emperor, controlling not less than 20 businesses in her palace. The single mother of two, now three, following recent adoption of her staff’s son, has always been on the lookout list of the soft media. She recently occupies the mind with a mind-blowing revealing picture that has since been generating mixed reactions. In her post on Instragam , the 37-year- old beautician dared the local norms as she went completely topless to reveal the upper half of her body. In the picture, the ex-Police Commissioner’s daughter who soaked herself in the bathtub with her breast exposed, using her hands to shade her nipple, tried to direct attention to a beauty product that she flaunts lightly between her boobs. Perhaps, nudity, which seems to be the trending marketing strategy, is attracting  favourable feedbacks for enterprises, hence, the entrepreneur’s vision, who for her business zeal, may also want to give the strategy a try, especially as her greatest challenge remains her competitors as she once disclosed. One of her followers dropped a comment on the post that her breasts were saggy. The comment did not go down well with the fashion icon who in return shared series of video showing off her figure in a seductive manner, further insisting that her breasts were firmer than that of Cardi B, the popular American rapper with large breasts. The follow-up video yet ignited another heat that filled the airways but she was quick to reply that she posted it to smite a follower who said her breast was saggy. “Due to the comments @chinnysblogng made on my previous post, went on her page only to read some funny comments about their mother’s breast falling due to the fact that I compressed my breast in the picture for the @tiannahsGlowProducts promo shoot, Cardi Breast Sef no stand reach my own,” Toyin wrote A woman like a man, Toyin who indeed knows her onions, has been a blessing to many souls by virtue of her hard work and commitment to her calling. Born into the family of Lawani of Ekiti State, Toyin says entrepreneurship runs in her blood as her mother and grandmother were also business gurus who ruled during their time. She is at present calling the shots in her respective domains which are not limited to fashion, beauty  modelling, film, photography, food, tourism and interior decoration. The list goes endlessly as she is the type that sees business in every opportunity that comes her way.