Muslims in Lagos and Nigeria have been enjoined to embrace peace, love and unity in order to build a great society. Women Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon. Olajumoke Okoya-Thomas, stated this in a statement made available to journalists as Muslims celebrate Eid-El-Kabir. Okoya-Thomas said further in the statement, which was signed by her media aide, Oladipupo Awojobi, that it was a thing of joy for “all of us to be alive to celebrate another Sallah in good health. “We, the women of our great party, the APC, are happy that Nigerian Muslims are joining numerous other Muslims from across the world to celebrate another Eid-el-Kabir. “As we are celebrating another Eid-el-Kabir, we should all remember that Prophet Mohammed (SAW) stood for peace, love and unity in his life time. Nigerian Muslims and indeed all Nigerians should realise the need for us to learn to live together as one and embrace tolerance as a people. “While we are not unmindful of our challenges as a nation, we should all realise that there is always light at the end of the tunnel and that we can do better than we are currently doing. We should not over celebrate bearing in mind that we have a lot on our hands as a nation. “The current government of the APC both at the federal and state levels, are working hard to make sure that things get better and ensure that we move forward even as we approach another general elections in the country,” Okoya-Thomas said in the statement. The Women leader was quoted to have reminded the Muslims in Nigeria of the need to use the Sallah period to pray for Nigeria, adding that no nation can make progress without peace, love and unity. Okoya-Thomas reiterated that the APC remains the party with the best solutions to the problems confronting the country and that the federal and Lagos State governments have handled issues maturedly and have potentials
to do more. “Once again, receive my simple gift of ” Eid Mubarak” wrapped with sincerity tied with care and sealed with a prayer to keep you safe everyday, ” the statement read.