The Lagos State Government is set to conduct a  screening test simultaneously in the six education districts on August 27, 2018, to determine the fitness of the students into the classes they applied for in its state-owned secondary schools. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Mrs. Adebunmi Adekanye who disclosed this, in a statement made available to Journalists by the Deputy Director, Public Affairs of the Ministry, Mr. Adesegun Ogundeji said application forms should be obtained and returned to the office of the Tutor-General/Permanent Secretary of the education district of the proposed school of the applicants for a  fee of N5,000, payable to any Skye Bank branch into account number:  4030010449, agency code: 4280000 and sort code: 32534/4040043. “Applicants are implored to ensure that they get clearance before paying as the fee is non-refundable.” She said applicants for transfer into JSS two,  are to attach second and third  term promotion examination results of J.S.S one, while those seeking transfer into SS one are to attach Basic Education Certificate Examination (B.E.C.E) number. “In addition, all applicants are to attach evidence of three years tax payment of their parent or guardian, photocopy of LASSRA identity card and receipt for the application form.” The Permanent Secretary reiterated that admission will be subject to vacancy in the proposed schools, while reminding students and parents that there won’t be transfer into model colleges/upgraded schools, JSS three and SS two  classes. Adekanye added that there will be no inter-state or international school transfer and  warned parents and guardians of students seeking transfer into public secondary schools in the state to be wary of fraudsters posing as intermediaries between them  and the Ministry of Education to facilitate the process. She  said the process is a simple one that does not require a third party, while warning fraudsters to stay clear of all programmes and activities of the education sector. According to her, “Any unauthorised person caught meddling with the process will be made to face the law.” For applicants that wants to transfer into its public schools, she  reminded them that only those willing to transfer into JSS two and SS one are eligible to apply, adding that applicants are to obtain clearance slip from the district office of tutor-general/permanent secretary of the school of choice  to clarify that there is vacancy. “Parents of successful applicants will be notified through text messages to the phone number supplied by them, ” 