Global Accelerex, the innovation leader in payment technology in Nigeria, has received the Best Partner Award from Nexgo, China’s technology giant. Hailed as the corporation’s highest tribute, the Award honours enduring partnerships as well as consistency in delivering superior e-payment solutions. The Award was presented at an elaborate ceremony during the Nexgo Partners’ Summit, which took place recently at Continental Hotel, Shenzhen, China, with over 60 partners from 25 countries in attendance. Guests also included technology experts and dignitaries from the private and public sector in China. The honour came despite stiff competition from many other notable names in the digital industry world-wide and Global Accelerex is once again proud to be at the top. The Managing Director of the company, Tunde Ogungbade, who was at the summit to receive the award, said: “Global Accelerex is delighted to be recognised by Nexgo with the Partner of the Year Award.” While giving his acceptance speech, Ogungbade said: “We are very proud of our long-term partnership with Nexgo. We are honoured to have received this recognition for providing customized terminal solutions that suit varying business needs not just in Nigeria, but across Africa, by our valued technical ally. We will not rest on our oars in the quest to deliver seamless e-payment technology to our customers.” He dedicated the award to the staff of Global Accelerex, saying the feat is a concerted effort by different departments. The Nexgo Partners Award recognises outstanding partnership that is strategic and sustainable. It also rewards partners that developed innovative payment applications which impacted positively on Nexgo’s developmental capability. The award came just weeks after Global Accelerex was awarded Fintech Company of the Year at the Digital Pay Expo, the biggest e-payment event in Africa. Managing Director of Nexgo, Yang Min, said: “Global Accelerex is among the partners we signed-on at the early stage of international business and over the years, we have made remarkable achievement in terms of growth and contribution to the cashless policy in Nigeria. This is a win-win for both our companies as our alliance with partners like Global Accelerex has catapulted our position on the Nielson Report from No. 12 to No. 6, while Global Accelerex has become the preferred Payment Terminal Service Provider in Nigeria. We believe in this partnership, we will witness new achievements of the two companies in Nigeria and Africa.” Deputy General Manager of Nexgo International, Yuan Liang Wei, said: “Global Accelerex has demonstrated a strong innovative culture. They received high marks for their collaborative work with Nexgo and their delivery of an array of cutting-edge solutions on payment terminals that work for Nigeria and Sub-Saharan Africa. “The solutions Global Accelerex deploy on the Nexgo family of products have tremendously improved the business system and performance of customers. We are honoured to have this company as a key partner in building a stronger alliance that fosters creativity”. Global Accelerex has set the standard for innovation in cashless payment systems, not just in Nigeria, but in sub-Saharan Africa.