Characterised for his live and let live approach to things, Liverpool’s Jurgen Klopp found himself churning over the details of last year’s Champions League final once again. Specifically, the German has been reflecting on Mohamed Salah, Sergio Ramos and a collision that altered that illustrious tie. With the new season almost upon us, Liverpool have enjoyed what appears to be a highly-productive transfer window. Given that Klopp was capable of guiding last year’s team to the lofty heights of that showpiece game with Real Madrid in Kiev, many fans will be wondering what further advancements can be made this time out. Speaking to Sport1, Klopp reiterated his desire “to become a Champions League winner.” However, directing attention back toward what he perceives as the nefarious fouling of Ramos, the German remains certain that he is not interested in winning “by any means.” While opinion is divided regarding Ramos’ involvement in the collision with Salah, and how deliberate his actions were, Jurgen Klopp is somewhat more certain regarding what he witnessed, and the convenience of such a development for Real Madrid’s hopes. “I do not expect that from Ramos, I only expect that he gives more thought to his assessment of certain situations. It may have been a coincidence, but Mo Salah was taken out of the game during an outstanding phase of his footballing life, in the middle of the field.” Skeptical of those willing to embrace the excuse that “these things happen,” Klopp criticised the Spanish defender for what ultimately amounts to setting a poor example for children watching these high-profile games. “But if that is the message we are sending to our children, that nothing is out of bounds and it’s all about winning, then I will be glad to leave this planet in 40 years.” Citing Ramos’ clear dive in the previous year’s final that had seen Juventus’ Juan Cuadrado sent-off as reason enough for Liverpool to have prepared for his influence in 2017, Klopp believes such actions take away from what was a deserving Real Madrid side.