 The Managing Director of Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA), Mr. Abiodun Dabiri, explains the prospects for local and foreign investors in Lagos State’s transportation system as he marshals the blueprint of the state’s focus to turn the megacity into a smart city. In this interview with Kunle Aderinokun, Gboyega Akinsanmi and Bayo Akinloye, the LAMATA helmsman also reveals how the government is revolutionising Nigeria’s transport system It seems everywhere you turn in Lagos there’s one construction or the other being embarked upon the state government to improve the megacity’s infrastructure. But this sometimes brings about dire constraints on the comfort and movement of Lagosians. Why can’t the government do something concerning how these projects impact negatively on the people? I want to thank you for the fact that you recognise that there is a lot of infrastructural projects going on in Lagos. It is the vision of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode to have what we call the integrated multimodal transport system, where are able to give people options on the mode of transport they want to use – wherein you have the rail system, the road and the water system. It is for that reason you see a lot of work going on. Let me now zero in on the work’s impact on people you raised. All over the world – people have said we’ve made Lagos State a construction site –, when Dubai started the people there experienced some inconvenience. But today, everybody is going to Dubai and they’re amazed about the infrastructure and development of that place. While Dubai was undergoing its transformation its inhabitants were complaining but today everybody is smiling. In Lagos, a similar thing is happening as people complain that the governor has turned Lagos into a construction site. I think if there’s anything people should do here is to identify the good work the governor is doing. Yet, that’s not to say that we didn’t factor in the plight the people may face in the projects. The people are part of the programme that we’re doing. If you look at the Oshodi-Abule Egba project, when we started the contractor was working through the corridor from end to end. But in the last three months, we’ve been able to sectionalise the ongoing project. Now, the contractor is only working from Abule Egba to Iyana Ipaja because we discovered that the construction is impacting on people seriously. So, we’ve been able to limit the contractor to that segment. In addition to that, our men are there – including LASTMA – and we’ve ensured that when work is ongoing at the corridor, the other carriageway is left for motorists to use. Also, while work is ongoing at the other carriageway we should open the BRT corridor for people to use. You’ll agree with me that area is densely populated; there’s no way the level of construction in that area won’t have impacts on the people. I appeal to our people with the assurance that we have them in mind and that’s why we’re trying to do what we’re doing to make sure we finish the project on time. The ongoing project is to make life better, comfortable and for them to have a new experience in terms of transportation. Would the impact of the construction not have been less burdensome if much of the work takes place late in the night, at the wee hours? It is part of the things that we have on the table for the contractor to use. The state government had to put street lights in that axis. At the moment, the challenge of the contractor working in the dead of the night is that of security. Right now, it’s not safe to let the workers work at that period of time. We’re looking at that. Also, when the project started they’ve cut all the cables and providing light was impossible, therefore making the construction site pitch-dark in the night. We’re trying to work around those issues now. How has it been running this strategic agency? It’s been a good journey so far. I’ll say very interesting in the sense that if you saw how LAMATA started. LAMATA started from the point of view that the state needs an agency that’ll be able to bring – people were working in silos then; you had the ministry of transportation and you have the local government chairmen doing their own thing. However, with the wisdom of Lagos State government and the World Bank the need for an agency that focuses basically on transportation in Lagos State – that’s why LAMATA was created and the agency has been able to develop a strategy called Strategic Transport Master Plan (STMP) for Lagos State. That defines what needs to be done until 2032 to bring comfort to the increasing number of people in Lagos. Through that master plan, we’re expected to have 14 BRT routes, six rail lines – monorail – and then 26 water routes. We’ve started implementing this. We’ve put in place two BRT routes. The third one is the Oshodi-Abule Egba route. And, of course, the rail system: you’ll see its implementation. We’ve started with the blue line. We’re equally negotiating the Marina express on the red line. We have other lines. The strategic transport master plan has been able to give us direction on how to tread. Today, everyone can see the bus reform we’re doing. This is what gave birth to all those things we’re doing. Can you expatiate on the BRT corridors and will they be ready for operation? Talking about the BRT corridors, the first one is from Marina to Mile 12. The second one is from Mile 12 to Ikorodu which has been completed. We also have from Oshodi to Abule Egba. The fourth one will be from Abule Egba down to the boundary between Lagos and Ogun State. Similarly, we have Apapa-Oshodi expressway; that’s another corridor down to Apapa. I think the Federal Government have taken over that road now to rehabilitate it. We also have Isolo and Iyana Oba down to Abule Egba. Those are the major BRT routes. The other ones are feeder routes. We call them quality bus corridors. The other one is the Lagos-Badagry route. We’ll start operations there very soon – before the end of this year, from there down to Okokomaiko. Those are the trunk roads and then we have what we call quality bus corridors which are the feeder routes – and we have plans the feeder roads too. Because when you have the trunk roads, you have high-occupancy vehicles that can ply roads like the Ikorodu Road. And then you have midi-buses – 32-seater – bringing people to the trunk roads. That’s the network we’re doing. Our concentration isn’t only on the trunk roads. We have plans for the feeder roads. The starting of operations of the Badagry route will be up to the Trade Fair Complex. The road is ready for use. A lot of works are going on in terms of building corridors and terminals. People want to enjoy all facilities springing up. When will they begin to enjoy the facilities like the Ikeja Terminal? This thing is a network. Some people when they leave their houses for work may have to board three or four buses before they get to their destination. So, we have Ikeja Terminal – that terminal alone will service about 23 routes. Our plan is to do these things in phases – now all the infrastructures aren’t ready. Apart from the bus terminals we also have to talk about the bus shelters. Then, we have the buses too. Lagos is a smart city; what we want to operate is what we call ‘smart operation’, where people come you’re not using cash. It’ll be electronic ticketing to enter the bus. So, everything must be ready and that’s what we’re working at achieving. Our aim is to make sure these things start before the end of this year. What we’re trying to run is a holistic system of operations which will be done in phases. We can’t go state-wide. Even the phase one that we call Ikeja zone: that’s what we’re still working on now. Until we’re able to put everything there we’re not going to come out. But very soon before the end of this year we’re coming out. Can you give us an update on the Marina blue line as it appears you have substituted one contractor for the other? We don’t need to water down what CCCC has done. CCCC has done a great job. They started the project. And let me explain to you: for the rail project, you have different components. We have what we call fixed infrastructure which is civil work and that’s what was given to CCCC. They’ve started it and they’re going to finish it. What we’ve signed with Aston is what we call movable infrastructure and then the systems that’ll run the rail – signalling, instrumentation and telecommunication. Rail system, unlike the bus you buy and then you begin to use, requires instrumentation, telecommunication, signalling, power. These were not part of the contract given to CCCC. Their contract was mainly to design and build fixed infrastructure which are the civil works that we’re seeing and the tracks being laid. On these tracks we’re going to put what we call the third rail – it’s not part of CCCC’s contract. It’s the third rail that’ll communicate the power to run the rail system – the coaches. These are different projects entirely. Building a rail system isn’t something you start today and you complete say in three years. We’ve been a lot; we’ve had third-party encounters. Without mentioning names, we’ve had problems with some oil companies that when they brought their barges until they moved we had to suspend work for about three weeks. The rail construction is going through the lagoon now. There, there are a lot of wreckages that have to be removed before construction can continue. We’ve never stopped this project for one day but because of issues we’re encountering around this project that’s why the work seems to be slow. So, Aston is to provide the rolling stock, that is, the coaches – provide the third rail, signalling, telecommunications and then what we call station fit-out and to put the station in a functional and operational state. That is what Aston will start doing and that’s going to get the project to passenger operation. Against the backdrop that Lagos is a megacity, what challenges does LAMATA face? I won’t say LAMATA – Lagos State government in the sense that Lagos State wants to do a lot. The first challenge – like I told you we have the Strategic Transport Master Plan – is fund. If we have fund available today, the whole of Lagos would have become a construction site. Lagos State is expanding – 86 people are entering Lagos every hour. Every hour these people are coming and are not going back. Therefore, what we need to do is to keep developing and improving on our infrastructure. However, there’s a snag: people aren’t paying taxes – they’re not paying enough. Every money received by this administration is being used to provide adequate infrastructure for people. Also, the current state of the economy isn’t helping people. If you go to the bank, what they’ll give you is short-term loans. They can’t give you long-term loans. And, you can’t use short-term loans for all these kinds of projects. That’s why Lagos State government, through LAMATA, is ready to work with investors to make all these things happen. Like I said we have six rail lines: we have the blue, red, and green, orange, purple and then you have the monorail. Therefore, Lagos State is ready with the people. The reality is that it’s the foreign investors that have been coming. Our people aren’t even showing interests. We have people who have the money but they’re not showing interests. The rail system is something that can be there for 50 years and someone is still making his money. The government can’t do it alone – not just in Lagos State, all over the world the government can’t do it alone. We need the involvement of private investors. What has Lagos State done to help people find these projects attractive as something they can invest in? If you look at our PPP law, it is very attractive. The state government is trying to make our environment conducive for people to come and invest in. You know a lot of people do not come and find out what the state government is doing. But foreigners are coming now. We are discussing with Marina Express already. Marina Express is a consortium of local and foreign investors. But we have not seen enough traffic. Honestly, the government of Lagos State is ready. With what we are doing with Marina Express, it shows we are ready. The federal government is helping us to make things work. You talked about the bus reform initiative earlier. Can you tell us more about that? Lagos State needs to move to the next level. As we all know, Lagos State is a mega city. We cannot call Lagos a mega city while we are not able to provide a comfortable transport system for the people. That is the way the Ambode administration is looking at it. That is why the administration is coming up with the Bus Reform Initiative. The initiative is to provide air-conditioned, comfortable, safe mode of transport system for the people. It is not that we are taking danfo off the road, but we are replacing it with a better option. Who are the people we are using? It is the same drivers that are operating in the state. Already, we are training the same set of drivers in Badagry and Epe. We are training them vigorously. People are asking us every day: why have we not started? But work is going. We cannot purchase this kind of buses and give them to drivers without proper training. If you want to go to where we are training, we can make an arrangement for you. We are not going to bring drivers from anywhere. The ratio is this: for one big bus, we need two and half drivers. If we are bringing 100 buses, we need 250 drivers. And we plan to bring 5,000 buses to start with. On this note, we are talking about 15,000 drivers. Where are we going to get them from? We are going to get them from the same set of drivers in the state. But our plan is to re-culture these drivers. We want to rehabilitate them. We want to re-orientate them. Look at the Ikeja Bus Terminal you talked about. You will not see paraga in that place. If you go to Oshodi transport interchange, you will not see paraga there. All these new bus terminals are not garages. If you will see anything at all, you’ll perhaps see KFC, MTN or Airtel. It is going to be a place where people can relax. When you are coming in the evening, you can see down and relax. So, we want to create a hub where people can sit down and drink coffee. This is the king of things this government is trying to do in Lagos State. It is not that we want to take danfo off the road. We just want to replace it with comfortable transport system that will appeal to the people. We are targeting the middle class. Let me say this. Somebody starts working today. The next thing is to start thinking about how to get a car. It should not be. If you go abroad, people are thinking about how to have their own homes immediately they start working. The reason is simple. If they come out of their homes, they can enter a comfortable public bus or train. In that case, what do they need the car for? That is what we are targeting. We want to change the orientation of our middle class. When they come out of schools, their first target is not to start thinking about how to buy a vehicle, but how to own a home to start with. That is where we are going to. So, it is beyond danfo people, though they are part of what we are doing. We have co-opted them. We have talked to the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW). They are exactly part of what we are doing. It is beyond taking the danfo off the road. It is about restructuring the economy of Lagos State. It is also about re-orientating the people of Lagos State. With this, people can now be thinking about things that reign or things that are tangible. If you use your first savings to buy a car, it does not make sense. The day you purchase a car, it starts depreciating. If you pay for your mortgage today, it starts appreciating. This is the kind of things we are looking at. You also talked about the state’s strategic transport master plan. How many years does the master plan cover? We have done the first one. It will elapse in 2032. But by 2019, we are planning to take it 2040. In the plan, we have taken into consideration the future realities of the state, especially its growing population. Since your agency deals with transportation generally, what is LAMATA doing about water transportation? In planning, LAMATA is involved in water transportation. But in implementation, we have Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA) in charge. But like I said earlier, we have strategic transport master plan. If you look at the master plan, we have been able to identify 26 routes on our waterways. Currently, through the World Bank, we have been able to secure a grant to conduct studies on our waterways. And the report will be submitted by the end of September. When the new Commissioner for Transportation, Mr. Ladi Lawanson, came in, one of his focal points has been waterway. Just last month, we had a roundtable on waterway. It is something at the heart of the state government. We discovered that only about one percent of Lagos population used our waterway. But we are just planning to take up it to 20 percent. That is the agenda of Lagos State. Basically, LAMATA is limited to planning. But in implementation, it is the LASWA. And of course, the Ministry of Transportation is looking into this. What impact is the rising population of Lagos State having on the transport system? It is seriously impacting on our transport system. As they are coming, people must move from one place to another. Two things are critical as people move into the state. The first one is public transport while the second is housing. We have been able to capture in our strategic transport master plan. We know the rate at which people are coming in. We know the population of Lagos State. We know the modes of transportation. We know the pattern of movement. That is we have been able to come up with master plan. Recently, another thing we are working on is not-motorised transport (NMT) system. We have about 40 per cent of people moving around Lagos, walking from one place to another. We have been able to develop a policy paper around it. We have collaborated with foreign people already. It has been given to the Ministry of Transportation. Very soon, we will come up a policy. You will begin to see us developing pedestrian walkways around Lagos so that people can walk from Point A to Point B seamlessly. You discover that people do not walk again because there is not facility for it. That is what we want to do so that people can walk. If you go to London, you see people coming out of their houses and walking to bus or train stations. But people are talking here that our bus stations are too far. It is part of the plan to keep our people in good shape. When you walk about 100 or 200 metres in the morning and you do the same in the evening, you do not need special exercise again. On the streets of London, that is why you see people in the morning going to bus or train stations. This is one of the things we are looking at. When the policy is out, the implementation will follow immediately. When you talk about inter-modal transport system, you can take away cable car system. Is LAMATA considering the option of cable car system? I have explained our strategic transport master plan in detail. The master plan has identified three cable car routes. People have shown interest in only one of them. The project is still on. They (the company working operating a cable car system in Lagos) started very well. Until recently, they have been able to secure all the stations. I think they are having issue with funding. But the project is still on. The state government has not taken it away from them. The other two cable car routes have been part of our strategic transport master plan from the beginning. What is happening to the other two? People have not come up for the other two.  They have not indicated interest in them. Like I said, we have six rail lines. But investors have only shown interest in three: green, red and the blue that we are constructing. People have not really realised what we have. I visited somewhere in Spain about four years ago where there is a family running what we are doing. We can see what they are doing. People have not really realised what we have. People are not really coming forward to take advantage of what we have. That is why the state government decided to take up the blue line. The blue line is being constructed by the state government. We are using the internally generated revenue (IGR) to construct it. The state government is using your tax to construct it. That is why it was as if it was taking a while. It is huge. What happened to the World Bank loan? The World Bank will not sponsor rail. Aside, we did not take money from the World Bank to build the blue line. We used the money we obtained from the World Bank to construct the bus rapid transit (BRT) along Ikorodu road. The World Bank does not sponsor rail because they will tell you they can use the money to construct one rail for 10 BRTs. So, they do not sponsor rail. For a while now, we have not heard about the partnership between the Lagos State Government and Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) to build Marina-Ikoyi-Lekki monorail. Why? Actually, the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) is ready to give us loan to for the project. They call it monorail that will run between Victoria Island and Ikoyi. But this administration has been able to analyse the traffic situation in the axis. If we have a monorail that will run between Ikoyi and Victoria Island, who are the people that will board it? Where are they coming from? They are people coming from Ajah. They are the people coming from Eleko. They are the people coming from Ibeju. While these people are stranded there and you build monorail in Victoria Island and Ikoyi, what will happen? It is going to be a wasted effort. We now proposed to use the loan to construct the green line. That is where we have a challenge now. Already, the state government is working on the blue line that will bring people from Okokomaiko to Marina. Our system in Lagos State is like people are going from mainland to the Island. That is where everybody is going. What we can use to change this traffic direction is the rail system we are talking about. We call it transport-oriented development (TOD). This will encourage people to build real estate around train stations. By the time we begin to have real estate, it will attract banks. When banks are around train stations, people will start setting up eatery there. Then, you will begin to see hotels and shopping malls coming up along the corridor. As time goes, people will not need to move from the mainland to the Island anymore. The critical problem that we have now is the green line. We are constructing the blue line already. Marina Express is trying to build the red line. The green line is coming from Lagos Free Trade Zone to Marina. If the JICA can fund the green line for us, you can come back to the monorail later. We do not want to put the cart before the horse. Go and see people coming from Ajah. If you are coming from Ajah to Marina, you have to leave your house by 5:00 or 5:30 a.m. If you stay at home until 6:00 a.m., you are in serious problem. When you have a rail system, you come at your time. We have been able to target these three axes: Sango-Ota, Okokomaiko and Ajah. If we are able to do these rail lines, we have honestly been able to solve almost 50 per cent of our traffic challenges. But we are still negotiating with the JICA on the green line.