Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja The World Bank, Kaduna State Government in partnership with the Rockefeller Foundation have trained 900 participants in e-lance strategies, platforms and Information Technology skills to bridge the gap of unemployment among the Nigerian youth. The three-day e-lance workshop tagged: “Click on Kaduna in Partnership with Digital Naija”, was targeted at providing opportunities for the youth in Northern Nigeria to join the virtual economic revolution in the world, and also aimed at tapping into the huge economic and social benefits that lie in a digital economy. Speaking at the event weekend in Abuja, the World Bank Country Director, Mr. rachid Benmessaoudn, pledged that the World Bank would support the effort of the Kaduna State Government in equipping the youth with digital skills to tap from the income generation potential of virtual economy. Also, the Kaduna State Commissioner for Budget and Planning, Hon. Muhammed Abdullahi, urged the participants to take the opportunity and tools given to them to build a successful career. He revealed that over 1,800 applicants between the ages of 18-40 applied for the ‘Click-on Kaduna Workshop’, but 900 participants were shortlisted for the programme which covered modules in e-lance strategies, platforms, negotiation and payment methods for three categories of participants, Business, Creative, & IT Skills. Abdulahi said: “Each day, the workshop witnessed an outpour of participants. The participants went through different sessions that included: E-lance strategies, platforms, negotiation and payment methods. Participants had access to individual computers to create a freelancing profile on international and local e-lance platforms that were partners of the workshop.” A major highlight of the workshop was the visit of the Governor of Kaduna State, Nasir el-Rufai, who commended the effort of the participants in taking a bold step in the right direction to building a successful virtual business. Other partners such as; Upwork, Motionwares, Asuqu, Efiko and Jolancer made the workshop a huge success.