Seriki Adinoyi in Jos
Residents of some communities in Bauchi State that were thrown into darkness following the wild windstorm that caused colossal damage to the power lines and infrastructure of Jos Electricity Distribution Company (Disco) broke into jubilation recently, following restoration of power to the communities. A terrific windstorm in some Bauchi communities had on 16th of June, 2018, caused a colossal damage, including the destruction of over 500 poles to some facilities of Jos Electricity Distribution Company.
This, therefore threw the affected communities into darkness. Speaking on behalf of the communities, Alhaji Aminu Mohammed, expressed joy at the restoration of power saying, “we can heave a sigh of relief, and we want to appreciate Jos Electricity Distribution Company for rising quickly to the challenge without delay. “When we saw the monumental damage caused by the windstorm, we were gripped by fear that we would remain in darkness for many months. But we want to thank Jos Disco for coming to our rescue fast.” Also speaking on the effort of Jos Disco, the Acting Head, Corporate Communication Unit, Saratu Aliyu, commended the efforts of the company in restoring power to Bauchi State, adding that, “Jos Electricity Distribution Plc is passionate about service delivery and excellence, fundamentally geared towards the satisfaction of her customers. “This was the reason the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, Alhaji Mohammed Modibbo ensured that he enlightened and updated customers on the cause of the power outage and the effort the company was making.” Encouraging consumers to increase their response at paying their bills, and to desist from sharp practices that hamper the company’s growth, Aliyu added that despite the company’s many constraints in cash flow, “huge amount of money was invested in restoring the damaged infrastructure.” Also speaking, the Head, Technical Operations, Engineer John Emeruwa disclosed that success of about 95 per cent restoration had been achieved, adding that the restoration process was in phases and would soon be completed.