Society Watch Indeed, marriage, as the popular saying goes, has a way of changing a lot about a man or woman. It is a known fact that many have been forced to kick their old or bad habits, at least for them to be seen and regarded as more responsible. Perhaps, this is the thinking in some quarters about the daughter of President Muhamadu Buhari, Zahra, who is now married to Ahmed Indimi. Since she got married, the mother of one is said to be keeping a low profile, while also trying to stay out of controversy. It will be recalled that until she got married, her name was synonymous with controversies. How? She was first in the news for the wrong reason shortly before the 2015 general election. Zahra, who was then an undergraduate student at the University of Surrey, UK, had posted some hot pictures of herself online, which generated mixed reactions in several quarters. Before the dust raised by that singular act could settle, Zahra, who is described as a social media savvy, was accused of living a reckless lifestyle by some online publications and blogs. However, her father’s media handlers rose in her defence, fingering his opponents as the sponsors of the odious publications. It got worse soon after her father defeated former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan in the March 28, 2015 general election. Zahra was allegedly romantically linked with many men, including Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State and later Zamfara State Governor, Abdulazeez Yari. However, both were quick to debunk the story. As fate would have it, she ended up in the arms of indimi. The wedding, which attracted many top personalities across the country, has been blessed with a baby boy. Nonetheless, if she will still go back to her old habit remains to be seen. Ajimobi, Lam-Adesina’s War Deepens If you are one of those who think the smouldering war between Oyo State Governor, Abiola Ajimobi and Federal House of Representatives member, Dapo Lam Adesina, is ending soon, you had better have a rethink, as the fight is getting messier by the day. Society Watch gathered that it started months ago over Ajimobi’s inability to support Adesina’s re-election bid to the Green Chamber, a development that has polarized the All Progressives Congress, APC, in the state. It was further gathered that Lam Adeshina, a former commissioner in the state, is accusing Ajimobi of planning to terminate his life. “It is because of this that he now goes about with a team of armed mobile policemen and stern-looking thugs,” the source added. The source revealed that the security team is always wherever the Federal House of Representatives member goes, even to his barber’s shop. Sources claimed the situation had degenerated to the state where threats have been issued by stakeholders on either side and some aggrieved individuals exited the party. Adejoke Adefulire-Orelope In The Cold? Until her current appointment, Adejoke Adefulire-Orelope had once occupied the exalted position of Deputy Govenor of Lagos State. Upon leaving office, she had attempted to represent her constituency, Lagos West Senatorial District, on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, APC, believing that her alleged godfather, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, would pave the way for her. But she soon found out that she was wrong. Faced with rejection by delegates at the party’s secretariat even before the election, she opted out of the race, thereby making Solomon Olalekan Adeola, one of the contestants, win the election. In the interval, she has reportedly been making clandestine moves to gain relevance again in the state. Hence, she went back to the drawing board to restrategise for 2019. Even as the 2019 election draws near, there is a cloud of uncertainty over her ambition, particularly as Senator Adeola is back to contest with the backing of top political stalwarts. Adeola’s sudden return to Lagos to contest the senatorial seat became necessary after he was forced to drop his gubernatorial ambition in Ogun State due to some forces. Today, Adefulire-Orelope may have again been left in the cold and her relevance is said to be gradually thinning out. Ex-beauty Queen, Tokoni Atins’s Rising Profile When Tokoni Atin, a former beauty queen and Chief Executive Director, Amaryllis Skincare Limited, walked up the stage to receive her award at the recently held second edition of Women Entrepreneurs Network organised by Emirati Events, all eyes turned on her. The little introduction of Atin done by the master of ceremonies had made the excited audience anxious to behold her. Everybody was in agreement that it was a well-deserved honour for Atin, who is a force to be reckoned with in the skin care industry. Though the event, which held on July 14, 2018 at NAF conference Hall and Suites, Abuja had come and gone, the founder of Tokoni Atin Foubdation, successfully made a good impression on the invited guests, who were mostly experts in the beauty, fashion, financial, business and banking sectors. Amongst dignitaries at the special award night were the former Minister for women Affairs, Hajiya Aisha Ismail and Mrs Gloria Shoda, President National Council for Women Society. During the evening of fun, young female entrepreneurs were lectured on how to start and maintain sustainable and gross profit-generating businesses. Also, grants and loans options were made available to them. As part of her efforts to give back to the society through her Foundation, the former beauty queen is planning a training event in Abuja between September 24 and October 5, which will be powered by Amaryllis School of Natural/Organic Skincare. Prospective students, it was gathered, will be taught on becoming experts in natural, organic skincare formulation, IT and social media, business and finance. Tony Elumelu Celebrates 90-Year-Old Mum It is doubtful if anyone could imagine what would have dominated the mind of top banker, Tony Elumelu, Chairman, United Bank For Africa, UBA, as he planned to celebrate his dear mother, Mrs. Suzzane Elumelu, who turned 90 last week. No doubt, the founder of Heirs Holding, owes his nonagenarian mother a lot in life. For him, watching her mother and the patriach of the family age gracefully gives him immeasurable joy. As a result, the respected banker today would be hosting family members, close friends, business associates, celebrities, politicians and high-net worth individuals across different walks of life, who all are expected to celebrate his mother at Harbour Points. Elumelu, no doubt, is a glittering star in the business firmament. Though he might not be said to be clairvoyant, his childhood betrayed him as a potentially great person in life. As a child, his dream was to become one of the greatest economists and bankers in the world. Luckily, providence granted him his heart’s desire. At 34, he set forth on the path to greatness when he led a small group of investors to acquire the defunct Standard Trust Bank, a small struggling commercial bank in Lagos, and restored it to profitability within a few years. Again, he became a reference point around the globe in 2005 when he led one of the greatest mergers in the history of African banking sector- the merger of Standard Trust Bank (STB) and United Bank of Africa (UBA). Hajiya Mariya Yuguda’s Worry She was once powerful, influential and highly connected. When her husband, former governor of Bauchi State, Isa Yuguda, held the reins of power, her word was law. As the First Lady then, she had large hangers-on. Many sought her listening ears for so many things. Life couldn’t be any better. But like they say, power is transient, as soon as her husband’s tenure expired in 2015, things changed and now Society Watch gathered that it is indeed turbulent moments for Hajiya Mariya Yuguda. It was learnt that the exit of her husband from power might have started taking its toll on her. Unlike when her husband was the governor. Insinuations are rife that she is currently going through financial constraints to run her pet-project, A .D Rufai Foundation, which was created to pursue issues germane to the survival and progress of the society. Virtually all Yuguda’s friends and beneficiaries of his government, who had been of financial assistance to the foundation have since abandoned Mariya to grapple with the trauma of a financially incapacitated project. Sources of funding the foundation include fund raising activities and partnership with government and donor agencies. ‘’ So terrible is the financial crisis at the foundation that almost all the workers have left because their salaries and allowances could not be paid. At the moment the corporate headquarters of the Foundation located a few metres away from Bauchi State Government House stands empty with only a gateman’’ a source revealed. It was gathered that shortly after they moved out of Government House, some official vehicles of the Government of Bauchi State allegedly used for the foundation were retrieved from Mariya on the directive of Governor Mohammed Abubakar. As if that weren’t bad enough, reliable sources disclosed that Mariya, who enjoyed a long vacation from her official duties when her husband was Governor has been finding it difficult to adjust to her job in the office of the Secretary to the government of the Federation (SGF) as an assistant director without all the paraphernalia of her former life. Mariya, a graduate of law from Ahmadu Bello University, who was once rumoured in the media to have been divorced by Isa Yuguda founded the Senator A. D Rufai Foundation to immortalize the philanthropic ideals of her father. Mariya is a professional administrator, she was first the Commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Development in Bauchi State between 2001 and 2004. Victoria Walker’s Grand Plan Except you have had any dealing or encounter with her, the name Victoria Walker may not ring a bell to you. But those whose paths have crossed hers would readily admit that she is a blessing to her generation and humanity at large. The woman of substance, who obtained her first degree at 21, started out as a relationship manager with a wealth management research firm. Her brilliance and creativity shone while she held that position. A few years after, she floated her own company, Uni If UDCRF has become a mega company today, it is simply because beautiful Walker is doing something right. Already, she has trained over 150 people from around the world on block chain technology and the various cryptocurrency. As a reward for her hard work, she sold 55 ledger wallets and two million pounds in Bitcoin purchases. In recognition of her contributions, she was appointed as the Ambassador for the United Digital Currency Reserve Foundation (UDCRF), a non-profit organization that supports central banks, corporations and entrepreneurs with financial liquidity in a digital currency backed by gold and other assets on the block chain in March 2018. Interestingly, UDCRF, it was gathered, is planning to extend its hand of kindness to Nigeria, which is rated as one of the fastest-growing economies in Sub-Saharan Africa . For her, there is no going back on her plans to embrace the African market, bring block chain and crypto currency to the doorsteps of Nigerians.