Nigeria’s foremost ground-handling service provider, NAHCO Aviance has announced its signing of new business contracts. The company said in a statement that it had signed a series of new contracts with both local and international airlines. The signings with local airlines include Max Air which has since started operations from Lagos and Kano, and handling of Hajj operations for Medview, one of the largest operators in the country. Aside handling of International and Hajj operations for Flynas, NAHCO also handles domestic and of recent, regional operations for the nation’s largest operator, Air Peace and Aero World, delivering service to the delight of the airlines. NAHCO in February 2018 began to handle the Rwandan international airline, Rwandair, providing ground handling service for the fast-rising operator at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja. The company also said in its recently announced results for the half year 2018, that it recorded a turnover of N4.64 billion as against the N3.71 billion posted for the same period last year. The results showed a 25 percent increase over the same period in 2017. Its profit before tax stood at N500.97 million as against N203.08 million reported as at half year 2017, a 147 per cent increase over last year. Profit after tax for the half year 2018 stood at N418.57 million – a 137 percent increase over the N176.32 million reported for the same period of last year. Speaking on the strides achieved in recent times by the company, the Managing Director/CEO, Mr. Idris Yakubu who took over as CEO in November 2017, said it was a result of growing faith in the new management that has superintended the Affairs of the company during the period. According to him, “We are pleased with the patronage of our Valued clients, the airlines and the agents, as well as the contributions of our hardworking and dedicated staff to this very positive result. “Management is committed to staff welfare and will continue the negotiation of the Staff Condition of Service, and conclude before the current booklet expires end September 2018”.