Peter Uzoho
Overland Airways, has expanded its frontier in the aviation business, moving from local to international routes, with the commencement of its flight operations to West African destinations starting with Lagos to Cotonou and Lome flights. From August 12, 2018, Overland Airways’ flights to these sub-regional routes are billed to officially begin, with the Lagos -Cotonou-Lome flights operating on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays.
According to the flight schedules, the flight would depart Lagos at 19.00 to arrive Cotonou, at 19.25, and depart Cotonou at 20.00 to arrive Lome at 20.30. Also, the flights would depart Lome at 21.00 to Lagos at 21.45.
Speaking at a press conference in Lagos, the Chief Operating Officer, Overland Airways, Mrs Aanu Benson, said the commencement of the regional scheduled flight services marked the take-off of the company’s drive to participate actively in regional socio-economic activities as well as integration in the region. She stressed that Overland Airways’ operations to Cotonou and Lome were aimed at offering choices to customers as its contribution to regional integration in West Africa, noting the company wants air travellers in the region to team up and discover each other while enjoying its excellent services. She said the company would deploy two of its fleet of modern aircraft- ATR-72 and ATR-42 for the regional operations, stressing its belief and commitment to offer customers a safe, reliable and comfortable flight services.
Benson said: “It is an expression of Nigeria’s renaissance in West Africa. One of the most important missing factors facing sustainable economic transformation in West Africa is smooth interconnectivity. “Over the coming years, Overland Airways will facilitate a new environment for business, leisure travellers, families, friends, students, and more essentially, bolster that boding amongst the people and groupings in the region.
“There is need to reinforce unity and prosperity at the regional level.” Benson who emphasised the airlines commitment to grow the economy and serve its customers added, “We invite our customers to enjoy our premium services as we expand into the region to enable our current and new customers enjoy the Overland Airways’ experience in the region.
“We will continue to improve our services and, we are here to serve you.”
She also promised that the company would continue to keep to on-time departure according to world standard.