Teach-For- Nigeria, a non-profit organisation focused on improving the quality of education for the country’s most marginalised children, has empowered and inducted the second cohort of change makers into its fellowship programme, after a four-week intensive summer training program, held recently, at the Greensprings School, Lekki, Lagos.
The program, a two year full-time paid commitment, is designed to build a movement of leaders who will work towards eliminating educational inequity through teaching in underserved schools in low income communities across Nigeria. The training focused on deepening prospective fellow’s understanding of the many issues facing the education system in the country , while exposing them to a wide breadth of subjects and pedagogy knowledge with the aim of preparing them for the challenge of leading their students towards achieving ambitious academic and non-academic goals. Prospective fellows also had ample opportunity to put theory into practice at summer school where each fellow independently planned and taught one- 40-minute lesson per day for two weeks under expert supervision. Upon induction, fellows were posted to carefully selected placement schools in Lagos, Ogun and Kaduna State. Speaking at the 2018 summer training, the Chairman, Teach For Nigeria, Gbenga Oyebode expressed optimism that, “If in 20 years, a critical mass of Teach For Nigeria alumni were holding key positions in both the public and private sectors of our national life, our education system and, in deed our country, would be much better than what it is today.” He advised the incoming fellows to uphold their commitment to the fellowship while assuring that the board remains committed to the sustainability of the programme. The Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Teach For Nigeria, Folawe Omikunle, said, “We believe every child has the right to an excellent education and an opportunity to determine their own pathways and meaningfully engage with their communities. Therefore, we support our fellows to help them transform the life trajectory of the pupils we serve through a rigorous, ongoing training programme starting with the summer training institute.” DFID Education Adviser and Teach First, UK Alumni, Esohe Eigbike advised the 2018 fellows saying, “ You are the future of this great nation and the training you have received will serve you well during and after this fellowship. I encourage you to be steadfast and do your best to be positive role models to each and every pupil under your influence.” Miss Sharon Takim, who spoke on behalf of the 2018 fellows said, “We are not unaware of the challenges we will face, but we will have to believe in our kids when no one else does and hope that the laughter, joy and fulfilment of seeing a life transformed before our very eyes is enough to grease the wheels of this great cause.”