By Nseobong Okon-Ekong Former Governor of Jigawa State and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirant, Dr Sule Lamido has received the endorsement of former President Olusegun Obasanjo for his aspiration to lead the country. Lamido who is on a consultation round to prominent persons and insitutions inthe country met the former Nigerian leader at his Olusegun Obasanjo National Library in Abeokuta, Ogun State. It was his second visit to Obasanjo, following an earlier call on the former president last year as part of his nationwide consultation on his presidential ambition. From an account of the meeting reported by Lamido’s Social Media Aide, Mansur Ahmed, the parley “was part of the consultation with relevant stakeholders, elders, party officials and key political actors in Nigeria.” Lamido said to the former president, “I have nothing to tell you about me because you know me more than anybody. I came to greet you, brief you, seek for your blessings and ask for your fatherly advise.” Responding, Obasanjo remarked, “as a former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Sule knows the world and knows how to relate with other countries. I was so happy and elated by what I saw in Jigawa state when you became a governor.” He added, “Sule I don’t have any doubt about your attributes, your capacity, your courage, your interest about your state and Nigeria at large. Sule, you can do it and you can do it well.” It would be recalled that Lamido made similar visits to the former military heads of state Abdulsalami Abubakar and Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida. Lamido had earlier met with all the PDP state governors in their respective states, the 36 PDP state chairmen, including zonal vice chairmen of the party and former speakers forum. He urged them to consider his aspiration and to pick the best for the party when the time comes Lamido is accompanied by the director general of hiscampaign organisation Mr. Musa Elayo, Senator Josephine Anenih, Ambassador Joe Keshi, AIG Kayode Thiorplus(rtd.), Alhaji Umaru Mai Shadai, and Hon. Rahman Owokoniran.