By James Sowole in Akure Suspected cultists on Monday killed a 23-year-old man identified as Felix Olowookere in the university town of Akungba Akoko in Akoko North East Local Government Area of Ondo State. The father of the deceased, Mr Olowookere, who disclosed the killing of his son, said he found the lifeless body of the deceased in a pool of blood when he returned home from a religious function. The worried father said the incident had thrown the family into sorrow as the elder sister of the deceased had her wedding ceremony last Saturday. Olowookere hinted that his late son who had been waiting for admission for four years just gained admission into the university. According to him, the deceased was killed after he had engaged in an argument with some individuals who were suspected to be cultists. The Police Area Commander in charge of Akoko area, Mr Razak Rauf, who confirmed the incident, said those involved in the killing are currently at large, adding that the police are making
frantic efforts to arrest them. Meanwhile, the Ondo State Police Command has arrested a fake lawyer and some suspected armed robbers terrorising the people of the state and other neighbouring states of Ekiti and Edo. The state Commissioner of Police, Mr Gbenga Adeyanju, who paraded the suspects in Akure Monday, said all the suspects will soon be charged to court for prosecution. According to him, the two robbery suspects — Rotimi Adeleye and Bukola Adeoye — were transferred from the Anti-Cultism Squad’s office to FSARS for further investigation. “However, in a mysterious circumstance, the two suspects escaped from police custody. The police later shot dead one of the suspects in another robbery operation in Ore,” he stated. Adeyanju noted that “through interrogation of other suspects in the Ore robbery, it was discovered that
one Mapayi Taye who has been parading himself as a lawyer even though he is an impostor, was the one who aided the escape of the two suspects from the custody of the FSARS”. The police commissioner added that: “The suspect went ahead to cut off the handcuffs in their hands and consequently absconded with the two robbery suspects to Ore. “He did not stop there, he went about blackmailing the police of having killed the suspects in an extra judicial manner. “He was however arrested on 30th July, 2018 and has since confessed to being a fake lawyer who has been duping unsuspecting members of the public. He will soon appear in court.” Adeyanju also disclosed that the command has arrested a gang of kidnappers who made attempts to abduct a pharmacist at Chinery Pharmacy shop, Akure. He said the pharmacist, who on sighting them with arms escaped through the back exit door, later reported them to the police.