The 2018 edition of the Seyi Akinwunmi Foundation Under-13 Charity Invitational Football tournament resumes this weekend at the Campos Mini Stadium, Lagos Island. The competition, which has attracted teams nation wide is now in its semi final phase and the First Vice President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) and Chairman of Lagos State Football Association (LSFA), Seyi Akinwunmi said the tournament will invite back to Lagos the four semi finalists at the last edition of the Channels International Kids Cup and there will be a special invitation for a school from IDP camp in Borno State. According to him the participating teams are LGEA Central School, Kaiama, Kwara State, Emmanuel Anglican Nursery & Primary School, Okesa, Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State; Baptist Government Primary School, Oshogbo Osun State; X-Planter Nursery & Primary School, Ikorodu, Lagos State; Amigo Largema Military Cantonment Primary School, Borno State and Ekofootball Future Stars, Lagos State. Akinwunmi, also said that there will be no room for age cheats and believes that the competition will be crucial to the development of grassroots football in the country. “We are starting with six teams and we hope it will become bigger and bigger in the coming years. We will have scholarships for four pupils and we will also have scholarship awards to the IDP school. The children in Eko Football are mostly sponsored by us, so it is education and football coming together. “What we did is that we were involved in the screening of the Channels Kids Cup. We screened them in their schools before they came and also did the same when they came for the Channels Kids Cup. So it is the same kids that are coming and we already know their age range. “It is not just about Seyi Akinwunmi and not only about Lagos State. One of the FA Chairmen from the North spoke with me this morning to wish me well about this tournament and promise to do his own next year too. “If all we have done is to encourage other people to emulate such tournament, then we have succeeded already in growing that mentality across the country. No doubt Nigeria will be untouchable in years to come as far as football is concerned,” Akinwunmi noted. The tournament will hold from 1st-2nd of September, 2018. Meanwhile, the LSFA Vice Chairman, Tade Azeez emphasized that donations from well-wishers plus partners will be invested back into the Seyi Akinwunmi U-13 tournament for the schools and students sponsorship.