As the battle for the soul of the leadership of the Senate rages, the APC has accused the PDP of planning to unleash attack on its members in the Senate. The party said that Saraki’s continued stay in office as Senate president amounted to “high treason.” The ruling party, which has been at logger heads with the main opposition party, over the reconvening of the National Assembly, insisted that the Senate must reconvene. In a statement by the Acting National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Yekini Nabene, the APC said it had uncovered plans by the PDP to attack its members. It said, “Our attention has been drawn to sinister plans by the PDP to attack some APC senators as part of the PDP’s desperate bid to ensure that Dr. Bukola Saraki clings to the position of Senate President. “By this statement, we call on security agents to protect APC Senators. If any senator is harmed, the PDP and Saraki should be held directly responsible. We call on security agencies to also closely monitor the activities of some PDP leaders including Saraki because the plan to attack APC senators is real and imminent,” it said APC said that it was reliably informed that the plot was hatched in the private residence of a PDP leader in Maitama-Abuja on Sunday night. The meeting was attended by 15 pro-Saraki senators including the Senate President himself. “We learnt that the PDP expressed worry over the APC’s Senate majority and considered several options to stop the APC from taking over the Senate leadership among which is attacking some APC senators to ensure their inability to attend legislative sittings. “The PDP have recruited thugs for this purpose, we have now learnt. “During Sunday’s meeting, the PDP senators planned several types of attack, one of which is to lure some of them (APC Senators) out at night in the guise of inviting senators to a political settlement meeting and thereafter instigate a violent confrontation during the meeting and unleash standby PDP thugs on APC senators” Our source privy to the meeting informed us. “This revelation has not come to us as a surprise because the Senate president through proxies has made several failed attempts to buy over APC senators with N100million each. “As a Party, we don’t believe in inducing lawmakers to achieve our legitimate goal of removing Saraki as Senate President. We will get the support of some PDP Senators to get the required 2/3 vote and impeach Saraki. We are already talking to some of PDP Senators who believe and support the direction of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration to achieve our legitimate goal,” “While Saraki and his cohorts continue to postpone their doomsday regarding the imminent Senate leadership change, the yet-to-be considered 2019 budget of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is dangerously delayed. “Clearly, Saraki’s actions as Senate President now bother on high treason.”