Jonathan Eze The Knights of St Mulumba in the Lagos Metropolitan Council has created three new sub- councils for knights and ladies of the order namely, Victoria Garden City (VGC) Sub-Council from Lekki Sub-Council, Gbagada Sub-council from Maryland Sub-Council and Amuwo-Odofin Sub-Council from Festac Sub-Council. Speaking at the event in Lagos, the Parish Priest, Our Lady Queen of Apostles, Ilupeju, Rev Fr. Paul Anyansi, said the event was aimed at creating new sub- councils of the Knights and Ladies of St Mulumba. Anyansi explained that the creation of new sub- councils, which has VGC as one of them, is aimed at strengthening and promoting the ideals of the order through evangelisation of the Catholic faith and fostering a Catholic conscience and outlook in their respective sub-councils and apply Catholic principles to all phases of societal life through examples and enlightenment. He remarked that knighthood requires members to give their talent, treasure and time, adding that the newly created VGC sub- council no doubt will strive to be a leading light in fostering good Christian life among its members and maintaining a union of practicing Catholics in fraternal charity and fellowship. In his remarks, the Grand Knight, VGC Sub- Council, Ferdinand Odoemenem, pledged to foster fraternal association for the good and progress of the church as well as the well-being of its members. Odoemenem assured members of the sub- council of the commitment of the new leadership to promote cooperation between one sub- council and the other. He added that they want to put measures in place to sustain the relationship that they have between sub- councils. He said, “Our mother Sub-council (Lekki Sub- Council) is precious to us and we will continue to bond together on many issues especially on evangelisation. “We are going to step up evangelisation within our geographical area, and promote brotherhood among us. We will endeavour to live exemplary Catholic lives and to grow in the grace of God through the virtues of charity, meekness, fidelity, courage, humility, modesty and holiness.” According to Odoemenem, with these virtues, all will be fired with a fervent zeal for the social apostolate required of a knight, while holding in high esteem professional competence and superior family values. Grand Knight of the Lekki Sub-Council, the mother Sub-Council, Benji Ofodile, in his remarks described the new VGC Sub-Council as a joyful birth adding that both sub-councils will continue to share and grow from each other’s strength in order to fulfil the aims and objectives of the order. Foundation Partners FCMB to Empower Youths
Activate Success International Foundation has partnered First City Monumental Bank (FCMB) under the aegis of ‘Activate Success Int’l Foundation Youth Entrepreneurship and Empowerment Programme’ to mentor members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) on practical steps to become successful entrepreneurs. The event tagged ‘Youth Entrepreneurship and Empowerment Programme’ (YEEP) has already held in Abuja, Imo and Benue at the orientation camp auditoriums and was led by a team of professionals and celebrities such as Nollywood actor-Desmond Elliot; CEO of Vodi Tailors- Seyi Adekunle; Samson Itodo Executive Director YIAGA and the founder of Activate Success International Foundation- Love Idoko, among others. The last part of the event which will hold in a soon to be announced date will be the presentation of cheques to the beneficiaries. This practical mentorship with the aim of giving a well-defined career direction to the next generation has been a learning and development partnership between the facilitators and the youths present at the event. The speakers constantly drew from their own personal experiences and industry-wide view to offer career guidance to the aspiring youths, to help them navigate the difficult business terrain. Aside providing access to a wealth of knowledge and experience including opportunity to relate with the seasoned speakers, Activate Success International Activation and FCMB also gave N1million grant to the corp members. One of the speakers gave N1.2million grant to 12 corps members and another speaker gave a sum of N500, 000 as grant to 10 members making a sum of N2.7million in all. Commenting on the initiative, Idoko said giving a well-defined career direction and support to the next generation has always been her passion. She said, “I am very passionate about youths and their future. I feel so concerned when they are out of school and have nothing to do. Most of them are business-minded but lack direction and funds to kick start their ideas. In so many cases, they are looking for who they can talk to for counseling and even mentorship. So we hope that this mentoring and empowerment programme we are organising for the youth corp members at all the locations will make a lot of difference in their lives and help shape their future. She also appreciated FCMB and INTELIA for partnering her foundation to make the event a success.