Mohammed Aminu in Sokoto, Ibrahim Shuaibu in Kano and Adibe Emenyonu in Benin Six members of the Kano State House of Assembly wednesday defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). This is coming as a former Minister of Transport, Alhaji Yusuf Suleiman, has also defected with thousands of his supporters from the PDP to the APC in Sokoto State. The wind of defection blowing across the country is also about to take a swoop on the home state of the National Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole as eight lawmakers in the Edo State House of Assembly have threatened to defect to the other political parties. Reading the defection letter of the APC members to the PDP at the House plenary session, the Speaker of the House, Hon. Kabiru Alhassan Rrurum revealed that, the members said it was necessary for them to leave their previous party and joined the PDP. According to their letter, their decision was based on the premise that the party has failed to meet the aspiration and yearnings of the people they represent. The defectors, who are from six local government areas, include Yusuf Babangida Suliaman representing Gwale, Rabiu Saleh from Gwarzo, Zubairu Mahmud from Madobi, Yusuf Abdullahi Falgore from Rogo, Hamza Sule Bichi from Bichi and Isiaku Ali Danja from Gezawa. The Kano State House of Assembly now has seven members of the PDP out of the 40 members. The House members’defection to PDP came in less than 24 hours after the defection of the former deputy Governor, Prof. Hafiz Abubakar and his 10 aides. Minister of Transport, Alhaji Yusuf Suleiman, yesterday defected with thousands of his supporters from the PDP to the APC in Sokoto State. Addressing party supporters shortly after picking his membership card in his ward in Isa Local Government Area (LGA) of the state, Suleiman said his decision to move to the APC was in consideration of the yearnings and aspirations of the people. However, eight lawmakers in the Edo State House of Assembly have also threatened to defect to the other political parties. It was not clear as at press time which political parties the lawmakers are planning to defect to, but the planned defection of the eight lawmakers, according to sources, is because they were not sure of getting the APC ticket.
A source close to the lawmakers who are about to leave APC, hinged the planned defection on the ban on campaign by the Edo APC leadership, which according to him, has heighten fears of the lawmakers that it might be late for them to get nomination of other parties if they fail to secure APC tickets. THISDAY gathered that Oshiomhole, had scheduled to meet with all aggrieved APC leaders in the state today (Thursday) to resolve all issues which was botched at the last meeting owing to two reasons. Oshiomhole had assured APC supporters who came to receive him at the Bénin Airport last Saturday that the party would reward all those who worked for the party. “I want to assure you that the tradition of carry our people along will be sustained. You represent what I call our infantry division. You are the ones on election day who ensure that our voters come out. You are the ones who ensure that the PDP rigging machine was defeated. We must keep you as a standing point, together we will match on and will ensure that everyone who works is looked after. “I know there are people with all kinds of stories but let me assure you that after the storm the weather will settle. Trust me, as you have not abandoned me, I will never abandon you. To our youths, I want to particularly appeal to you; don’t lose faith. There will be work, there will be participation; there will be involvement. We will not throw away anybody. “Nobody will be used and dumped. If yesterday has come beautiful, tomorrow will be better,” he explained.