With just few months to the annual week-long celebration of the music, life and times of Afrobeat legend, Fela Anikulapo-Kuti, the organising committee has unveiled pre-events to kick off the festivity. In its usual tradition, this year’s Felabration will open with its secondary school debate. About 10 schools will debate on the topic ‘Creation of State Police in Nigeria’. They include Ipakode Senior Grammar School, Ikorodu, Epe Girls Senior High School, Epe, Herbert Macaulay Senior Girls High School, Sabo Yaba, Ajara Senior Grammar School, Badagry and Ejigbo Senior High School, Ejigbo, Lagos. Founded by Yeni Anikulapo-Kuti, the eldest daughter of Fela, Felabration School Debate was established not only to bring out the best in logical thought processes of the school-children, but also, to sensitise them on burning topical national issues. Over the years, this segment of the annual festival has attracted the best of secondary school students in Lagos. With the support of the Lagos State Ministry of Education, the educational programme is adjudged the biggest debate platform for secondary schools in the state. According to the organising committee, the debate is a way of giving back to the society “by impacting on these kids, the fundamental knowledge required to become world class debaters.” This year’s debate will hold on October 10, 2018 at Freedom Park, Lagos Island. Meanwhile, entries are now open for the Felabration Afrobics dance contest, an initiative introduced last year to globally promote the afrobeat dance styles created and made popular by the legend. With of the contest are given the opportunity to perform their winning dance styles on the massive global Felabration stage. Contestants are required to visit the Felabration website to sign up. Auditions will be held at the New Afrika Shrine and the Freedom Park while the final contest will be held at the New Afrika Shrine on a later date. Judges for the various stages of the competition include Segun Adefila, Founder of The Crown Troupe; and renowned dancer, Adedayo Liadi, popularly known as Ijodee.