Chinedu Eze Nigeria’s oldest carrier, Aero Contractors, has started the payment of over 30 workers it declared redundant in 2017 during its reorganisation process. This was confirmed by the Managing Director of the airline, Captain Ado Sanusi, who stated that henceforth, the staff would be paid every month. He said this was possible because the company which was moribund early last year is making a turnaround, as about N70 million has already been expended on the payment of redundant personnel. Also, the airline, which expanded its maintenance facility last year, has conducted C-check on its second aircraft, which would be ready soon. This would increase the number of aircraft in its fleet to four fixed wing, as another aircraft is due to return from checks overseas this week and three helicopters. The airline would deliver the third helicopter from Malaysia next Friday in order to boost its oil and gas service operations.
THISDAY learnt that the B737-500 aircraft, which was taken out for C—check maintenance in France by previous management could not return as planned due to paucity of funds. But, the current management led by Sanusi, took it upon itself to ensure the return of the aircraft. Commenting on the payment of severance packages and outstanding salaries to the staff declared redundant, Sanusi said the aim of the management was to disburse about N50million monthly to the affected staff and assured them that some would be recalled as its fleet of aircraft increases. He said: “It is true that our aircraft, which went out for maintenance in France would be returning to the country by this weekend. Apart from this, we are currently carrying out maintenance on another B737-400 aircraft, which hopefully would be out of maintenance yard in the next two to three weeks. “Also, on the payment of some of the redundant workers, about 30 of them have been paid so far since the beginning of this month, but what we are doing is payment from bottom to top. Very soon, others would be paid. Our intention is to disburse at least N50million to the affected workers monthly.” With the expansion of its maintenance facility and training of its personnel to be able to conduct C-check on Boeing B737 Classics, Aero started a revamp under the management of Sanusi. The company recalled some of its workers and had earned Aircraft Maintenance Organisation (AMO) certification from the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Ghana Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA) and Cameroon. This means that the company can conduct maintenance checks on Boeing aircraft from these countries.