By Vanessa Obioha A quantity surveyor and interior designer, Bisi Taiwo, has been installed as the third female president and 33rd President of the Rotary Club of Akowonjo. She took the reins from Valentine Shomoye, whose tenure expired two months ago. “It is indeed a privileged time for me to be the President of this noble Club, a Club full of great and rich history. Thirty-three years ago, some service minded friends came together to lay the foundation of this Club. I would not be standing in this position today to address you as the 33rd President of the Rotary Club of Akowonjo but for their passion, commitment and foresightedness,” she said. Until her appointment, Taiwo who joined the club in 2000, has served as the Membership Chair and member of some committees. She is also the brain behind the first Rotary Fellowship Group that was conceptualised and started in Nigeria, International Fellowship of Draughts Playing Rotarians. Like her female predecessors, Pauline Okonji (2006 – 2007)  and Celine China Oparah (2010 – 2011), Taiwo is determined to make an indelible mark in the club. Aligning her mission with that of the Club’s, she rolled out the six focus areas her administration will work on. They include basic education and literacy; disease prevention and treatment; peace and conflict resolution; water and sanitation;  maternal and child health; and economic and community development. Her humanitarian projects for the year 2018-2019 include completion of the ICT project at Rauf Abati/Aregbesola Primary Schools Shahsha, provision of borehole to Akowonjo community, youth empowerment scheme, free medical outreach programme, donation of food items and clothing to IDPs camps, among others. “Rotary is the oldest service club in the world and its objectives remain the same since it was started 113 years ago. They are to develop acquaintance among each other, promote vocational excellence, using Rotarians occupation as an opportunity to serve society and promote international understanding,” she stated. The event also marked the induction of the new board of directors. Present at the ceremony were the wife of the late first chartered president of the club, Martin’s Ilotoi and Bola Adeboye who chaired the occasion. 