The Board of Directors of Cement Company of Northern Nigeria (CCNN), one of Nigeria’s largest cement producers, has announced the appointment of Engr. Yusuf Binji as its new Managing Director. The appointment is expected to take effect from September 1, 2018. A statement Thursday disclosed that prior to the appointment, Binji was the Managing Director of Obu Cement Company (a subsidiary of BUA Cement), in Okpella, Edo State – a position he has held since February 2017. He is to take over from Ibrahim Aminu who joins the larger BUA Group in an Executive Director capacity. Speaking on this appointment, the Chairman of the CCNN Board of Directors, Abdul Samad Rabiu, said Binji’s appointment was part of a restructuring effort aimed at further positioning the company for better business performance. “Yusuf Binji brings with him solid experience from almost 3 decades in the African cement industry having worked with Heidelberg Africa, CCNN and BUA Cement in various capacities. Prior to joining BUA Cement, he was Technical Director at CCNN with responsibility for plant operations, maintenance, projects and power generation of the whole plant and was instrumental in the turning around of CCNN operations when BUA took over. “Before then, he had worked extensively with Heidelberg Cement Africa. Whilst at Heidelberg Cement Africa, he underwent various foreign assignments to CEMENTA Slite Plant, Sweden and NORCEM Kjpsvik factory, Norway. “He also undertook a joint project assignment to develop recommendations for harmonised control procedures around dispatch of cement at a few different plants in West and Central Africa (Ghacem, CimTogo, CimBenin, CCNN, TPCC and CimGabon) using a ‘best common procedure’ approach,” the statement added. Furthermore, it disclosed that as Managing director at BUA Obu Cement, Binji was responsible for overseeing extensive growth in production volumes and sales, and solidifying BUA Cement’s place as the preferred brand in its key markets. “We are thus confident in his ability to build on the gains recorded in recent years by CCNN and oversee new growth areas for the company,” Rabiu added. A chemical engineer with degrees from Ahmadu Bello University and the University College, London, Binji is a Fellow of the Nigerian Society of Engineers, the Solar Energy Society of Nigeria and the Nigerian Society of Chemical Engineers.