By Oladipupo Awojobi The African Leadership Magazine UK, organisers of the annual Good Governance Poll in Nigeria, has unveiled the list of winners in the just concluded Good Governance Poll. A statement issued on Wednesday said the winners who will be decorated and presented with the instruments of honour at the International Forum on African Leadership on September 25 on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly meeting in New York, were unveiled by the Publisher, Dr. Ken Giami, in Abuja, Nigeria, after the editorial board concluded the collation of both offline and online votes across all the channels and platforms. The event with the theme: Peace, Security and Sustainable Development in Africa – Our Home-grown Solutions, has as the keynote speaker, John Magugufuli, President of the Republic of Tanzania. The winners are: Best Governor – Grassroots & People Development, Mr. Ifeanyi Okowa, Delta State; Best Governor – Infrastructural Development, Mr. Nyesome Wike, Rivers State; Best Governor – Education Development, Malam Nasiru El-Rufai, Kaduna State; and Best Governor, Peace & Security, Alhaji Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo, Gombe State. The Overall Best Governor was won by Lagos State Governor Akinwumi Ambode, while Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC, emerged as the Best Government Institution for the year. The poll, which is in its third year, is coming on the heels of the successful hosting of two previous editions of the poll, which has become a veritable tool for measuring performance among Nigeria’s state and regional leaders.
The statement said winners will be presented with instruments of honour and award in front of over 300 political, business and diplomatic leaders in New York, on the sideline of the United Nations General Assembly Meeting. The Good Governance Poll, instituted by African Leadership Magazine UK, is in line with the magazine’s objective of providing credible information and support to leaders in Nigeria and Africa at large. The poll is part of the group’s strategic engagement tool designed to monitor performance; gauge the mood of the electorates; promote good governance, as well as engender peer review amongst leaders in Nigeria and Africa at large.