Mary Nnah For their outstanding contributions to the impressive results recorded by Honeywell Flour Mills Plc in the last financial year, some customers of the company have been rewarded with all-expense-paid holiday trip to either Ghana or Dubai. The lucky customers to Dubai are Alhaji Oladega Modiu and wife Alhaja Safurat Oladega of Kay-Solak Nigeria Ventures who won first position in Business-To-Business category. Also included in the trip are Mrs. Modinat Sanusi and husband, Kazeem Sanusi of Baking Industry Limited who came first in Business-To-Consumer category. Those on Ghana trip are Sales Officer, Opeyemi Baking Industry, Mr. Olaiya Rilwan Oriyomi; Managing Director, Namadi Inuwa Enterprises, Mr. Inuwa Umar Namadi and Sales Analyst, Opeyemi Baking Industry, Mr. Oladunmoye Sheriff Bukola. They have since left for their various trips and are expected to visit interesting and historical places, according to Innovation and Consumer Insight Manager, Mr. Lanre DaSilva. He listed such places in Dubai to include Dubai museum, Jumeirah Mosque, Jumeirah Beach, Burj Al Arab, The Palm Island, Atlantis Hotel, Mall of Emirates, Dubai Mall and Burj Khalifa. They will also enjoy Dubai city tour, Dhow cruise, Desert Safari and Dune Bashing. The elated beneficiaries expressed their appreciation to Honeywell Flour Mills, assuring that they would double their efforts to retain their outstanding position. Managing Director, Mr. Lanre Jaiyeola had, while announcing the winners during the company’s customers’ forum, assured customers of better service and performance, saying the company has put in place processes to ensure that it meets and even surpasses their expectations. He listed part of efforts to meet customers’ demand to include the establishment of new Honeywell’s pasta plant at Honeywell Food and Agro Allied Industrial Complex in Sagamu, Ogun State which consists of two spaghetti lines and two macaroni lines with annual capacity of about 140,000 metric tons. According to him, the plant, which is the largest and most sophisticated pasta plants in sub-Saharan Africa, is able to produce pasta using both wheat and local grains. Besides the Pasta plant, he said the site will accommodate over 10 additional factories all producing food products with the central theme of utilizing locally available grains and tubers to provide more affordable high quality food for Nigerians and in the process creating thousands of jobs and guaranteeing food security in the country.