Olawale Ajimotokan in Abuja Operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS), on Thursday morning restored sanity to the crisis enmeshed Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) secretariat in Abuja. The intervention was in response to the subtle move by the faction led by Chris Giwa, to assume control of the “Glass House. “ As reported on Thursday, some members of the factional board and a handful of aides had attempted to regain control of the football headquarters in the wake of retreat of DSS on Wednesday, after Lawal Daura, the former DG of the state security agency, was sacked for his role in the siege at the National Assembly on Tuesday. An atmosphere of confusion has gripped Nigerian football in recent times fueled by the claims by Giwa and Amaju Pinnick to be the legally elected president of the NFF Executive Committee. Sports Minister, Solomon Dalung, has never hide his intentions to install Giwa as NFF president in line with a High Court of Jos order, but the Presidency restored Pinnick who also has the backing of FIFA President, Gianni Infantino. NFF workers were stunned when DSS officers made a lightning return to the football headquarters in Wuse Zone 7, Abuja at about 9 a.m thursday. When the DSS men arrived, they asked all workers to vacate the premises, but they were dared by Dr Emmanuel Ikpeme, the ‘Protem’ Secretary General, installed by the Giwa faction to replace Dr Mohammed Sanusi, who was removed over a petition to the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) alleging corrupt practices. Ikpeme, was, however, bruised following a confrontation with the DSS operatives. The substantive technical director at NFF insisted on driving into the premises of the football headquarters, contrary to the instruction of the DSS men. He was assaulted in the heated exchange that also ensued. After assuming effective control of the Glass House, the state secret service, subsequently handed the control of NFF to Bola Oyeyode, the most senior football administrator, in the absence of Sanusi, who is attending the FIFA Under-20 Women’s World Cup in France