From George Okoh in Makurdi Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State has faulted the probe of his security vote by the Economic and Financial Crime Commission, EFCC, advising the agency to start its probe from the presidency. EFCC recently stated that it was looking at allegation that the governor was involved in a N22 billion security vote diversion. The governor who denied the allegation, said the agency should rather beam its searchlight on President Muhammadu Buhari’s security vote before moving to the 36 states. Governor Ortom stated this while briefing reporters shortly after a state broadcast, in Makurdi, the state capital.
The governor said why should he be singled out among all governors in the country for such probe and advised the anti-graft agency to begin the probe from the Presidency. “So far, I am the only governor in Nigeria whose security vote is being investigated by the EFCC. Why should Benue case be different if not persecution? “If the EFCC wanted a genuine investigation of security vote spending, they should have started from the presidency right across the 36 states “If their focus was on Benue State they should have started from 1999 when Senator Akume was governor. But this is not the case. I want the whole world to know that all this is about persecution and a clear case of witch-hunting.” He referred to comments made by presidential spokesman Femi Adesina during an interview on Channels Television where he was quoted as saying, “I doubt world over if any government would come to say this is how much we have spent on security, because can you quantify the amount of one life? It is not something that any government will begin to disclose”. “Why should Benue case be different if not persecution? If the EFCC wanted a genuine investigation of security vote spending they should have started from the Presidency right across the 36 states. If their focus was on Benue State, they should have started from 1999. But this is not the case. With the enormous security challenges in the state since my assumption of office, it is surprising that any one would expect me to do nothing but keep the security vote in the safe. “The security vote spending being investigated spans from 2015 to 2018, a period of grave security challenges in the state. I reiterate that the investigation is a clear case of persecution. I have not misappropriated, diverted or stolen any money. I have nothing to hide. I assure that the investigators can find nothing incriminating against me.” Ortom acknowledged that the biggest challenge facing his administration was the payment of salaries, noting that it was caused because of the N69 billion inherited as arrears of salaries, pensions and gratuities as well as another N70 billion commitment on contracts and other obligations. He also said that the state had a very low Internally Generated Revenue (IGR), noting that it has the third highest salary bill in the country surpassed only by Lagos and Rivers States. “During the recession we used two months allocation to pay one month. However, from January this year, we have faithfully paid each month up to June and by next week, July salaries will be paid. “But for Benue State University staff, their salaries are paid up to date. We have repeatedly assured the Benue people that we are sourcing funds to pay arrears of salaries, pensions and gratuity. I will continue to do my best to pay because I know that a worker deserves his wage. I have also directed the reinstatement of workers who were wrongly included on the list of ghost workers. I am totally committed to meeting the yearnings and aspirations of my people. Democracy is nothing more than doing what majority of people want their leaders to do”, he submitted. Ortom said the focus on him was the second phase of the deliberate destabilisation of Benue State after the Fulani herdsmen concerted invasion, killings and destruction seem to have failed. “All these are coming under the veil of a plan to impeach some opposition governors including the democratically elected governor of Benue State. The ultimate objective of the grand conspiracy is the destabilisation of the entire Middle Belt and other parts of the country for the purpose of conquest and occupation”, he frowned. The governor blamed leader of APC in the State Senator George Akume for the political crisis, accusing the police of collaborating with politicians to destabilise the state.