Thousands of people from Asia, Africa, Europe, Australia, North and South America are currently in Lagos attending Christ Embassy August 2018 Healing School where they hope to be healed of chronic illnesses. The August 2018 Healing School session, where Pastor Chris Oyakhilome is ministering to the sick, kicked off July 27 and will end on August 27. A statement said at the healing school, which is free of charge, students were only required to provide proof of a physical ailment or illness. “Primary proof of illness included medical records, accident reports or notes from a doctor. Students are also encouraged to bring with them secondary proof of suffering in the form of medical equipment or medicines. Wheelchairs, walking canes, hearing devices, eyeglasses and medications all counted towards this secondary proof. “Strict rules are set in order to provide the success of the ongoing treatments. Once again, to attend one must have at (his/her) disposal a proof of sickness – official certificate and bring their medical devices in addition,” the statement said. The statement noted that, “during past healing school sessions students have dropped their need for these medical devices in a dramatic way. Pastor Chris has risen people from their wheelchairs, restored hearing to the deaf and alleviated the need for medicines through faith in Christ during past session… “The Healing School is absolutely free but comes with many requirements. Students must attend classes that run daily from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. with only an one-hour lunch break. Students must also complete at least 18 days of classes that overlap with at least three Mondays during their stay. And each student must attend church every Sunday morning starting at 9:00 a.m. “The school reserves its right to extend invitations for longer stays in order to make the August Session as effective as possible. The school has also shown commitment to its students by providing an abundance of information about the Lagos, Nigeria, area.” The August session was popular due to the fact that Pastor Chris Oyakhilome had built a reputation for being an effective faith healer. His television programme, “Enter the Healing School with Pastor Chris,” is available via satellite and many cable services. The show has been viewed by millions and testimonials are mounting up for its effectiveness. Many viewers claim to have been healed simply by watching the television programme in the comfort of their own homes. “Students will also be treated to powerful testimonials at the August Healing School Session. One such significant testimonial will be that of a footballer by the name of Prince Enefiok that have been cured during a previous session of the Healing School. He claims to have had his athletic abilities restored after attending Pastor Chris’s event. “He attended the Healing School after оver-coming a vicious car accident. Through faith in Christ and Pastor Chris, the footballer claims to be back on the field enjoying what he loves…”