AOS Orwell has announced three key appointments as the oilfield conglomerate re-energises to optimise performance and execute its growth plans. The appointments have taken effect. The appointees were Ms Charlotte Essiet, Government Relations Director; Mr. Anthony Nwosu, Country Manager Wellbore Construction Division; and Mr Kelly Shideler, Country Manager, Oiltools Africa Limited/ Titan Tubulars Nigeria Limited OAL/TTNL. According to a statement from the company, the appointees are expected to bring a combination of profound commercial and operational experience which would be instrumental in repositioning the company to take advantage of emerging opportunities in the oil, gas, electrical and power sectors. “I am delighted to welcome the new team to these very important roles in AOS Orwell,” the Managing Director of the company, Femi Omotayo, stated. “They are not only the right entrants with the requisite experience, their collective expertise and leadership capacity will help the company to the next level as we continue the process of building AOS Orwell for growth and profitability. “With these key appointments, leadership has been brought closer to our strategic business units (SBUs)” In her role Essiet would manage and coordinate engagements with government agencies/authorities, NNPC, NAPIMS, DPR, NCDMB and other key external stakeholders. She joined the company in this new position following over 14 years’ experience in managing sales, business development, government/external affairs and Nigerian content. Essiet’s career history includes exposure to Strategy and Business Development in Europe, UAE, Equatorial Guinea and Nigeria. She holds an MBA in Engineering Business Managers from Manchester Business School, United Kingdom and an Executive Professional Certificate in Strategic Marketing Management (SMM) from Stanford Business School, USA. On the other hand, Nwosu would be accountable for the overall growth of the Wellbore Construction Division (WCD) business in AOS Orwell and meeting the Division’s financial targets by effectively implementing a fit-for-purpose strategy, managing customers and stakeholders and supervising divisional sales managers and Business Segment Managers (BSMs). He joined the company following over 16 years in various operations, sales and leadership positions in the oilfield service industry. He spent over 10 years in senior management roles in product line management, drilling services and sales. Nwosu’s career demonstrates strong commercial acumen and strategy with exposure to business operations in Gabon, Ghana, South Africa, Qatar and Nigeria. For Shideler, he joined the company in the new position following a career spanning more than 20 years in marketing, sales and operations. He had spent over nine years in senior roles internationally, working in Russia, China and Pakistan. Also, Shideler’s career history includes some exposure to West Africa with clients such as Exxon Mobil, Shell, Lonestar Drilling, Ensign Energy Services International, KCA Deutag and Reliant Services.