A new life is in the offing for street hawkers as Gadal Capacity Development Foundation seeks to unbundle the diverse talents in the hawking business with a view to rightly positioning them as entrepreneurs.  Peace Obi writes  The search of a viable means of livelihood and employment has pushed many Nigerians into street hawking, an enterprise that has long become an escape for many. The pangs of hunger and the basic needs of life are no respecters of persons. When faced with these challenges with little or no means of livelihood, necessity truly becomes the mother of invention. This probably explains why city dwellers with little or no skills, poorly educated, and not gainfully employed, often resort to street hawking for survival. Interestingly, the enterprise is one that has no age or gender barrier. With a not-so-high start-up capital and no special skills required, the hawking industry has continued to grow, though not without its own attendant risks. Driven by a sense of responsibility, each participant has the family at heart and wants to support his/her in every way possible.  Gadal Intervention  Gadal Capacity Development Foundation believes the families and the society at large stand to benefit better when the untapped talents in the street hawkers are properly harnessed. At a recent event held in Lagos, Gadal quoted the report of African Development, which said over 55 per cent of African GDP, as well as 80 per cent of employment, reside within the informal sector. And according to Gadal, the street hawkers actually make a unit of the informal sector. As result, the not-for-profit organisation has advised that the government, as well as other stakeholders in every economy, must recognise the place of the informal sector, show sufficient commitment to harmonise it, so as to make the best of it. In his remarks, the team leader of Gadal Capacity Development Foundation, Emma Esinnah, said that suitable and sustainable solutions to street hawking starts with the understanding of the statistics and data behind the phenomenon. He said that much can be achieved with verifiable facts about street hawkers as “it will help us know whether it is best to help them become better entrepreneurs or train them for employment because hawkers of today can become great entrepreneurs of tomorrow”.  Designing Workable Solutions  Stating that though the profile of most street hawkers would ordinary elicit concern and pity, Esinnah, however, said that Gadal was not out to sympathise with the hawkers but through a scientific research steer government, policymakers, corporate organisations, entrepreneurs, among others into action to address the issue. Esinnah stated, “What Gadal is trying to do is not to sympathise or how we can do charity for this people. We want to find out dimensions of this trade that can be leveraged by anyone of us in different ways we can. We can do that by strengthening the study, broadcast the study to attract policymakers’ attention, entrepreneurs, corporate organisations to be part of the solution. Corporate organisations can leverage these people, give them social exposure, and upgrade their entrepreneurial skills. These are the thoughts Gadal wants to provoke. “This study is just the beginning. There are still dimensions of this topic that is yet to be done. For example, what sort of products, solutions can be designed to help entrepreneurs to leverage on this phenomenon? What sort of social policy can be better than just bundling them into  trucks or exploiting them by taking money from them? What real social solutions can be designed, Gadal wants to design such solutions, but it costs money to put them out as implementable models, he said.  Outcome of Research  Presenting a report of a research conducted by the Gadal, a member of the team, Kelechi Ekeghe, noted that the foundation seeks to provide smart solutions to identified social problems using statistics and data. In his presentation of the report titled, “Hawkers and the Urban Informal Sector: A Study of Street Hawking in Lagos State”, Ekeghe said the foundation decided to direct its attention on street hawking in Lagos State with a view to finding out the dimensions of the trade that can be leveraged by the foundation along with its development partners in improving the well-being of the people, and the country’s economy in general. He noted the foundation was deliberate in its decision to scientifically address the issue rather than relying on the general feelings and beliefs on street hawking. According to him, Gadal as a team of professionals is determined to provide scientific and sustainable solutions to every social issue it beams its light on. He stated that though individuals might have different views about street hawkers, Gadal as a team however, had chosen to adopt professionalism in its approach. Adding that the research is intended to provide among others, the true identity of the hawkers, their motivation, dreams, and challenges, so as to proffer solutions that are devoid of sentiments, he said, “Some think they are people who have nothing else to do, others see them as criminals in waiting. We have decided to go further to look at things that gave us a clear picture of who these people are and what future could be if we didn’t harness the potential of this unit of informal sector.” Deliberating on the foundation’s findings, Ekeghe said that Gadal through its researchers discovered that 73 per cent of those involved in hawking in Lagos State are men, while the females constitute 27 per cent of the entire figure. He further disclosed that while a greater percentage (54) of the hawkers are secondary school leavers, 22 per cent finished primary school; 14 and 11 per cent dropped out of secondary school and tertiary institution, respectively.  Hawking Conditions  Speaking on the conditions the hawkers carry out their businesses, he said the nature of the business oftentimes expose practitioners to narcotics, drug abuse, drug addiction, sexual harassment and all sorts of violations. Ekeghe noted that because their sales depend on their ability to take the goods to where they are needed, the hawkers ordinarily walk long distances in order to make sales. A situation it is said increases hawkers vulnerability to health challenges as a result of their exposure to harsh weather. He said, “I don’t know if you have ever seen hawkers on the third mainland bridge? To get to wherever point you saw them, they must have walked from either end of the bridge. So, you know they are exposed to harsh weather conditions that are obviously not good for their health.” Ekeghe noted that addressing the issue of street hawking, would, on the other hand, provide solutions to some other problems associated with hawking.  Centre for Public Policy  Commending the efforts of the Gadal team, the keynote speaker, the Director, Centre for Public Policy, Mr. Melvin Ayogu, said hawking is quite an old enterprise. He stressed that practitioners should be seen as inventors and creators, who have creatively overcome unemployment in a way rather than being labeled as thieves, miscreants, and dropouts. He noted that uneven distribution of income as part of the things propelling street hawking, a situation he said Nigeria is not alone in. He said that street hawking exists in different countries and in different shapes, such as the shop wagons and that the essence of hawking is its mobility. He said that hawking as a means of livelihood was not too far from what some personal bankers do, “who keep telling you to open an account with them. They are selling money, you know! We need to look at it from this perspective. And rather than saying they are thieves, miscreants, and dropouts, we should see how we can turn that business model around into an opportunity. That is why they need to be screened.  “For those who want to make an enterprise out of street hawking and not because they want to rob somebody or disrupt the streets, we have to find a way to encourage them. For those who do not belong there, we need to find a way to discourage them, train and send them somewhere else. That is the beginning of the effort in trying to sanitise hawking enterprise and not to outlaw the entire enterprise.” Speaking also, the chairman of the event, Admiral Godwin Kanu (rtd), said he was very proud of what Gadal team has done, noting that it was high time Africa found its own solutions for her problems. “This is a great research you have done. I am very proud that they are able to look at our own society, see what the problems we are faced with and seek for a solution. And they did not just seek for a solution but actually going to the basics. I like the fact that you are scientific in your approach.” The chairman, who was represented by Dr. Ije Jidenma, said that it is important that the research has sought to know who hawkers are; what they are made up of; their number, their needs and how their needs can be addressed. Stating that the problem of street hawking would require a dynamic approach, he explained that it was because one size won’t fit all kinds of solution.