Francis Sardauna in Katsina The National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, Thursday lambasted those criticising President Muhammadu Buhari’s economic policies as well as security measures he had put in place to assuage the challenges facing Nigerians, describing them as corruption syndicates and thieves. He said they were saboteurs bent on promoting lies to resist the change being introduced by the Buhari-led administration aimed at alleviating the plights of Nigerians. Oshiomhole, who was speaking at the party’s mega rally at Kangiwa Square, in Daura, the hometown of President Buhari on Thursday, said the critics were misguiding Nigerians so that things would continue the way they were during the previous administration when looting was in vogue in Nigeria. According to him, “Buhari’s critics are saboteurs and thieves of a government that is working hard to clean the Augean stable of the mess created by the previous administration in Nigeria. The APC national chairman said Buhari’s programmes and policies were geared towards bringing the country out of the political, social and economic morass it was enmeshed in during PDP 16 years of misrule. He argued that the critics who claimed that Buhari administration had failed were merely promoting the kind of propaganda that would help foster their own political interest ahead of 2019 general elections, which he said they would fail woefully. Oshiomhole reiterated that Buhari had done a lot to save the Nigerian economy, which was tottering towards an eclipse, thereby making it easy for Nigerians to have access to soft loans and other resources they need in their small and medium scale enterprises as well as farming. While urging Nigerians to re-elect President Buhari come 2019, the APC boss said: “Those critics are making it difficult for Nigerians to see the legacy the President is leaving behind for them under this administration”. Addressing APC stalwarts at the rally, the Acting President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, said for democracy dividends to thrive in the country, Nigerians must cast their votes for APC candidates. Prof. Osinbajo urged the people of Katsina north senatorial district to vote Hon. Ahmed Baba Kaita to represent them at the red chamber. “You know that Katsina state and even this particularly constituency is the constituency of Mr. President, so every vote for Kaita is the vote for Mr. President. “We must have a majority in the senate because politics is about numbers. So we must make sure that we vote him because we want to maintain our majority”, the acting president said.