A philanthropist and community activist, Mr. Olubiyi Oladipupo Otegbeye has joined the race to become governor of Ogun State in 2019 on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). He is the founder of Building Opportunities for Tomorrow (BOT), a Non Governmental Organisation (NGO) for the empowerment of Ogun State indigenes. Some of the activities of BOT include medical missions, eye screening, prescription and issuing of medical glasses to over 8,000 beneficiaries, youth empowerment training programmes for over 625 beneficiaries and pre-retirement training programmes for over 240 beneficiaries. The activities of BOT have occasioned great enthusiasm among his many supporters throughout Ogun State. Better known as an insurance guru and lawyer, Otegbeye has attained enviable educational qualification and glowing track record in his career. In 1984, at the age of 20, he got his Bachelor degree in Insurance at the University of Lagos. He followed up with a Masters degree (MBA) in Financial Management and Accounting between 1985 and 1987. He graduated with LLB in Law at Lagos State University in 2001. Biyi was admitted to the Nigerian Law School and called to the Nigerian Bar in 2003 as a Barrister and Solicitor of the Supreme Court of Nigeria. He professionally qualified as an Associate of the Chartered Insurance Institute London (ACII) in 1988. The insurance guru began his professional career at the United Nigeria Insurance Company Limited (UNIC) in 1986. Between 1990 and 1991 he was the General Manager, Capital Asset Insurance Brokers and in 1991, he became CEO of Excel Insurance Brokers. In 1993, at the age of 29, he founded Regency Insurance Company Limited. In 2007, he led Regency to the capital market to become a publicly quoted company. He remains the Group Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer of Regency Alliance Insurance Plc. Otegbeye sits on the board of many companies either as chairman or director. They include: Regency Alliance Insurance Limited, Ghana; Earth Energy Nigeria Limited; Trusfund Pensions Limited; Treasurygate Nigeria Limited; RIC Microfinance Bank; RIC Properties and Investment Limited; Global Medioptions UK Limited; Ripples Ventures Ltd and El-Bethel Schools Lagos amongst others. His love for God and the people have brightened his path and opened up prospects in politics. Otegbeye’s appearance on the political turf is like a beacon of hope in the collective quest of Yewa-Awori people to ensure that an indigene of Ogun West emerges as the governor of Ogun State in the 2019 election for the first time since the creation of Ogun State in 1976. In 2012, he was appointed by the Ogun State Governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun to serve as a member of the fact-finding panel of Gateway Industrial and Petroleum Institute; and in further recognition of his contribution to the nation, he was appointed as Chairman of the Governing Board of the University of Uyo Teaching Hospital in April 2013 by the then President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. In January 2018, he was appointed by Amosun as a member of Ogun State Judicial Service Commission. In 2015, he contested the Senatorial seat in Ogun West under the Social Democratic Party (SDP). He was inspired to join the All Progressive Congress (APC) by the leadership qualities of Amosun in 2015. He is an active member of the party in Ilaro Ward 1, Yewa South Local Government Area. QUOTE: His love for God and the people have brightened his path and opened up prospects in politics. Otegbeye’s appearance on the political turf is like a beacon of hope in the collective quest of Yewa-Awori people to ensure that an indigene of Ogun West emerges as the governor of Ogun State in the 2019 election for the first time since the creation of Ogun State in 1976