Onyebuchi Ezigbo in Abuja and Okon Bassey in Uyo The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, (APC), Bola Tinubu, has alleged that some members of the National Assembly are plotting to impeach President Muhammadu Buhari. This is coming as the ex-Senate Minority Leader, Senator Godswill Akpabio, has formally defected from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the ruling APC. But the National Chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, described Akpabio’s defection as unfortunate, saying he was walking against the tide, and deserves pity. Tinubu who spoke yesterday at the formal defection of Akpabio, at the Ikot Ekpene township stadium in Akwa Ibom State however, cautioned the plotters to drop their sinister move, adding that it is not “possible for a lizard to wrestle an antelope.’’ Tinubu described the current situation in the country as “a war between the progressives and the conservatives.”
“We believe in government of the people, for the people and by the people; but the conservatives believe in government of sharing.We say Nigerian money belongs to Nigerians. We say Nigerians must be given development. We believe in investing in the people. “But they believe in sharing and looting the money.
“Today, we are aspiring in our vision, but the Peoples Democratic Party has no vision. They believe in sharing and looting the treasury,” Tinubu said. He said Nigerians gave the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) 16 years to rule but the party failed.
“Today, Buhari says we must change; we must account for Nigeria’s money, but they are resisting.’’ “With the present posture of the state (Akwa Ibom), it “shall sweep the evil out with the broom,’’ Tinubu said.
Speaking during his formal defection to the APC, Akpabio told the huge crowd that he decided to join APC because he discovered that President Muhammadu Buhari “is a man of integrity and a nationalist.”
He said that he joined APC to help salvage the country. “The country is at war and all the hands must be on deck to salvage the situation and not to aggravate it.
“As keepers of national emergency, everyone should put heads together. I decided to join to emancipate the people and provide succour for the people.’’ He said that the PDP of today has no vision and the leadership is replete with arrogance. Those who defected to the PDP alongside Akpabio were two lawmakers in the state House of Assembly, Hon. Nse Ntuen representing Essien Udium state constituency and Hon Tobby Gabriel representing Etim Ekpo/Ika state constancy.
Others are the state Deputy Chairman of PDP, Godswill Afangede, immediate past Secretary to the State Government, Etekamba Umoren, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Udom Ekpo Udom (rtd), just to mention the few. The defectors were received by the Acting President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, who was represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, the National Chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole and the national leader of the APC Senator Bola Tinubu. Earlier, Osinbajo said the government of APC was recommended to the people of Akwa Ibom State because it has delivered on all its promises. “We are growing the economy, security is being improved inspite of all its challenges, with Akwa Ibom coming on board things will turn around in the Niger Delta region.” He praised the defectors for joining the APC and urged those who were in the stadium to go back to their various homes and communities to sing the music of change. The national chairman of the APC, Oshiomhole, said he was excited of Senator Akpabio defection, describing his defection as uncommon defection and historic. He lauded Akpabio for the sacrificing his position as Senate Minority Leader to help Buhari build a better Nigeria, expressing optimism that the ex-governor would bring his transformatory qualities into strengthening and boosting the party in the South-south zone. However, the PDP has described the defection of Akpabio as amounting to walking against the tide, adding that this would endanger his fine political career. Secondus said he finds it very strange that anybody would go into a sinking ship at a time every other person is finding their way out of it. A statement from the National Chairman’s media office signed by the media adviser, Ike Abonyi said whatever caused Akpabio’s action must have been for self-preservation and not borne out of any rational strategic political decision. The National Chairman said Senator Akpabio’s decision does not enjoy the blessing of the people of Akwa Ibom whose mandate he enjoyed for eight years as state governor and nearly four years now as a senator. “I cannot fathom any reason why on earth Akpabio should work against the tide, moving at opposite direction to a place every reasonable persons are escaping from. “He deserves our pity because whatever would make somebody to chose bad for good is clearly one that he should be prayed for for salvation especially given the fact that wolves are waiting for his arrival to devour him.
“How on earth can anybody who has his eyes wide open be seen walking into danger knowingly. Secondus lashed out at the APC, for arm-twisting and intimidating people into their drowning boat ostensibly to ruin and disintegrate the person involved. He called on the people of Akwa Ibom to be wise and know when to turn their back from a leader directing them to danger. “I urge you to remain focused and continue to give support to your hard working Governor Emmanuel Udom as he remains unrelenting in the delivering of democracy to the people.
Secondus said Nigerians had long turned their back on the APC after it became manifest that it has nothing good to offer. He said the mission to save the country’s democracy and rescue the country is already on track and no amount of coercion and threat will change what God has already endorsed.