Laleye Dipo in Minna A former Technical Committee Chairman of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Sulaiman David, has said that the elders reconciliatory committee set up by the minister of sports and headed by Ibrahim Galadima will solve the lingering crisis at the football federation. David yesterday described the composition of the committee and its membership as a “the right step in the step direction”. “I throw my weight behind the Ibrahim Galadima-led reconciliatory committee on the crisis rocking the Nigeria football house,” David said in a statement in Minna. “I am particularly impressed with the step that the Minister of Sports, Solomon Dalung, has taken in trying to bring a lasting peace to the NFF. It is a right step in the right direction and he must be commended.” The former NFF technical committee chief said adding that the “wisdom employed by the minister of sports to bring peace to the football house remains the only way out of the logjam”. David described the membership of the reconciliatory committee as men of high integrity that have played key roles in the development of sports, especially football in Nigeria and therefore have the capacity to bring the warring factions to a round-table for a possible peace in football house. “All the members of the reconciliatory committee are men that command respect within the football family in Nigeria and that is why I am confident that they will succeed in the assignment.” According to David, “the Galadima that I know will bring his wealth of experience to bear in ensuring that peace is achieved among the two factions”. He described the ongoing crisis in the football house as “very unfortunate and worrisome,” stressing that “the crisis has degraded Nigerian football in the eyes of the football world”. “It is high time something urgently is done to rescue Nigerian football from further degrading. This is one of the longest lasting protracted crisis in Nigeria football, and this is not good for our football development,” David declared.