Africa’s richest man, Alhaji Aliko Dangote has commended  the family of the former Head of State, General Ibrahim Babangida, for intervening in the educational needs of the country, saying that the foundation is key  to whatever anyone becomes in life. The businessman who was the keynote speaker   at the  20th graduation ceremony  of El-Amin International School, Minna, Niger State, held, recently,  said government alone cannot provide the country’s education needs, and  that since its establishment the school has made indelible marks in the life of many Nigerians across various ethnic and religious divides. Represented by Alhaji Mansir Ahmed, the Chief Executive Officer of Dangote Group, said, “ I thank the  owner and management of this school,  for providing a solid academic, moral and religious foundation for the children, as government alone cannot shoulder all the responsibilities. The  Acting Principal, Mallam Ahmed, thanked the guests, parents and well-wishers for standing by the school, saying the school was founded by the wife of the former Head of State as an investment in the future of Nigeria. He said  the school, which promotes cultural values reflected in positive character, mental alertness, and moral uprightness, is renowned for providing the needed foundation for the country’s  youngest PhD holder, Dr. Salihu Ibrahim Dasuki. According to him, “The school educates children from across Nigeria and promotes respect for cultural and religious values, offering both national and international examinations including WASSCE, NECO, UTME and IGCSE. “While we maintain our mandate of ensuring and implementing a balanced and integrated curriculum that is delivered in the most impactful ways, El-Amin International School also offers an exclusive extracurricular activities ranging from photography, hairdressing, music and dancing. Our biggest sporting activities include polo, soccer, tennis, taekwondo, swimming and basketball.” At the ceremony, the nursery section graduated 35 pupils of 20 girls, 15 boys from year six, while the secondary school, which marked its 19th graduation had a total of 38 boys and 20 girls graduating  from the senior school. Prizes were given to students who excel in their academics, among whom were; Miss  Naja’atu Ishaka Bawa who received the outstanding awards for Geography, Chemistry, Economics, Biology and Civic Education while Maimunah Haruna received the awards for the best in Physics, English Language and ICT. Master Muhammed Ahmed Tijani got the award for the best in Mathematics while Farida Ibrahim got the best in Literature. Nabila Ishaka Bawa got the best in Islamic Studies while Precious Duza got the award for the best in Christian Religious Studies. The Chairman of the school’s Parent Teachers Association (PTA), Honorable  Ibrahim Ebbo, and other guests including Hajiya Kalgo and Alhaji Murtala Aliyu, among other parents and notable personalities, also  lauded the school as the students were presented certificates and prizes. Notable among the dignitaries that graced the occasion were the Emir of Minna, His Royal Highness, Dr. Umar Farouk Bahago; Deputy Inspector General of Police, Mr. Shuaib Gambo, and Niger State’s Commissioner for Education, Hajia Fatima Madugu.