By Ibrahim Shuaibu in Kano The Deputy Governor of Kano State, Professor Hafiz Abubakar on Sunday, resigned his position as deputy Governor under the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The immediate Deputy Governor, resigned from his position as he got hint that 31 members of the state House of Assembly signed his impeachment which will be tabled before the house today. He made up his mind to tender his resignation letter on Friday, but was advised to suspend it till yesterday as part of the political strategy to snub the planned impeachment put against him. Hafiz, resigned his position to join his political godfather, Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso who defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from the ruling APC. Speculations were rife in Kano last Wednesday that the academician and a Professor in Nutrition at Bayero University Kano, thrown in the towel. The letter of resignation dated August 5, 2018 and signed by the deputy governor, Hafiz Abubakar said he had desired to remain in office until the end of their tenure, but chose to resign due to irreconcilable differences with the governor. Hafiz was also quoted in the letter stating that, “Your Excellency, I would have desired to remain up to the end of our tenure in order to fulfill the aspirations and expectations of the good people of Kano State as expressed in their mandate given to our joint ticket in 2015, but with the current and persistent irreconcilable differences on matters relating to governance and government operations, personal opinions, and the concept of, and respect for, democratic ideals and values, it would be unfair to my conscience, to the good people of Kano State and to you as the head of the government to continue to remain in my position as the Deputy Governor of Kano State. “Your Excellency would recall several instances I had to draw your attention to the need to understand and appreciate these differences in order to avoid drifting into the kind of unnecessary crisis we are facing today, but to no avail,” the letter read in part. The immediate Deputy Governor on July 30, petitioned the police and State Security Service, SSS, over threat to his life and plans by the state government to stage rally against him. Mr Hafiz, a loyalist of former Governor Rabiu Kwankwaso, has been at loggerheads with the state governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, for siding with Mr Kwankwaso in the political impasse in the state.