AFCON 2019 QUALIFIERS Duro Ikhazuagbe with agency report Victor Moses’ retirement from the Super Eagles has not gone down well with handlers of the senior national team as they have began subtle moves to woo the Chelsea star back to fold. Moses shocked Nigerians a fortnight ago when he announced his withdrawal from the senior national team. Although no excuse was given by the former England Under-19 star to quit Eagles, many attributed his decision to his unhappiness with Nigeria’s performance in the two World Cup outing he has been part of in 2014 in Brazil and Russia 2018. Now, the coaches are optimistic that Moses may still be named in the Nigerian squad when the list is released today. According to KweséESPN, Nigeria’s coach, Gernot Rohr, is making efforts to get Moses out of his international retirement. The coach’s trump card is telling the Chelsea wing back of the abundance opportunity of winning the Africa Cup of Nations a second time after being part of the 2013 victorious side. “We spoke already and I hope that his decision is not definitive,” Rohr was quoted by KweséESPN as saying. “I think it depends on his motivation. If he really wants to commit himself again, he is welcome. “Maybe the chance to win the AFCON is motivation. We will see.” According to KweséESPN, some other Super Eagles’ players were stunned at Moses’ retirement at 27. Central defender, William Troost-Ekong, told KweséESPN: “I didn’t expect it. “I was just as shocked as everyone else when I heard. It is a massive loss for Nigeria because Victor has been fantastic for us. “I have only played with him the last year and a half. Everyone sees what he can do. But at the same time it would be exciting to see what other players stand up now. “Players come and go and it’s not one player that makes a team. I think it should be exciting for Nigeria to see what players stand up now.” If Moses does not rescind his decision, he will be the second high-profile Super Eagles player that will be conspicuously missing when the team takes on Seychelles in Victoria on September 8 in the Match-day 2 of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers. Meanwhile. Super Eagles Captain, John Mikel Obi, has been excused from the Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers against Seychelles next month. The 85-capped Nigerian captain is not nursing any known injury. NFF officials admitted yesterday the team’s gaffer who arrived Nigeria from extended post World Cup holiday during the week granted the Tianjin Teda enforcer the break from the Seychelles match. The former Chelsea star will however be available for the other fixtures in the AFCON 2019 qualifying series, especially the November revenge-taking clash with the Bafana Bafana of South Africa.