MARKET REPORT The Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Stock Exchange, Mr. Oscar N. Onyema, was on Friday   inducted as a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) of Nigeria. The conferment of the CIS fellowship   followed his   induction as an Associate Member of CIS in 2017, after he voluntarily enrolled as a member of CIS, sat and passed the institution’s examination. CIS is the body statutorily empowered to train and certify professionals in the Nigerian capital market. It is the only professional body in Nigeria authorised to carry out qualifying examinations into the stockbroking profession. The Institute controls the activities of its members and matters associated with it. Speaking during the conferment of the fellowship on Onyema, the President/Chairman of Council (CIS), Mr. Dapo Adekoje FCIS, said, “Oscar’s meteoric rise to the highest level of our profession is the outcome of his transformative thought leadership that has not only impacted the Nigerian Stock Exchange, but the entire capital market ecosystem. As a person, he is a distinguished gentleman whose humility continues to endear him to many. “It was these same exemplary attributes that made him subject himself to the rigours of the CIS Professional Examination, which he passed very well. I share in the joy of inducting you into the Fellowship grade, which is the highest and most prestigious level of membership of the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers, reserved for accomplished professionals like you distinguished self.” In his acceptance speech, Onyema expressed his gratitude to CIS and reiterated his determination to project the best image of the institute by ensuring adherence to the code of ethics of the profession. “I am indeed delighted to become a fellow of this great Institute that is highly regarded for the critical role it plays in creating, maintaining and extending high standards in the stockbroking profession in Nigeria. Although I have stock brokering licence in the United States and Associate membership of CISI in the United Kingdom, I cherish this one because it’s from my native land. “I therefore pledge to continue to work with the Institute towards sustainable development of the capital market and the Nigerian economy in general.” Onyema’s leadership service at the premier bourse and contributions to the capital market in Nigeria and Africa continue to receive local and international recognition. In 2017, he was elevated to a Fellow of the Institute of Directors, Nigeria and received the Special Recognition Award for Transformational Leadership in the Nigerian Capital Markets at Business Day Top 25 CEOs Awards 2018. He joined the bourse in 2011 after about two decades of work experience at leading stock exchanges in the United States.