First Bank of Nigeria Limited said its re-launched Firstmonie agent network can now be found in every neighbourhood in the country. As part of its efforts to drive financial inclusion and deepen financial services across the nooks and crannies of Nigeria through cost effective channels, the Firstmonie agent network was relaunched in July 2017 with a pilot scheme of in six densely populated states of Lagos, Oyo, Kano, Abuja FCT, Anambra and Rivers. According to a statement from the bank, afteran impressive 6-month pilot that ended in December 2017, the agent banking scheme was extended nationwide in January 2018. “And within six months of its launch, the scheme has made appreciable progress with an extensive network spread across every state, and at every local government area nationwide. “To demonstrate its acceptance and growing importance, the Firstmonie Agent network processes over 100,000 transactions worth over N1 billion on a daily basis. “Firstmonie Agents are positioned within rural and semi-urban locations across the country to provide basic financial services such as account opening, cash deposit, cash withdrawals, airtime purchase, bill payments and much more to every Nigerian. “Through this channel, the bank is committed to providing convenient services that endear trust, provide ease of access to financial products, thereby saving time and travel costs. Transactions carried out through this channel are authenticated and safe,” the statement explained. According to the Group Head, eBusiness, First Bank of Nigeria Limited, Chuma Ezirim, “FirstBank, is focused on building a quality agent network in the country by deploying a robust risk framework and the right product mix to ensure viability and security of the network, aimed at deepening financialservices access, especially in the unserved and underserved segments of our market. “We therefore, encourage individuals in these local communities to look out for the Firstmonie agent locations closest to them for all their banking needs.”