The mental fireworks for 2018 Cowbellpedia secondary school Mathematics Television quiz show commenced last weekend with Ogun State representatives grabbing the first semi-final tickets of the competition, sponsored by Cowbell Milk. This year’s edition marks the 20th anniversary of Cowbell and Mathematics in Nigeria. In the junior category preliminary group A contest , Loluwa Abiodun and Akinfoluhan Akinleye, both of The Ambassadors College, Ota, Ogun State progressed from the preliminary stage to the semi-finals. The duo survived the stiff challenge from Victor Dimas of Federal Government College, Ugwolawo, Kogi, State; Tobiloba Akinwande of Greater Tomorrow International Ciollege, Arigidi-Akoko, Ondo State; Princewill Olalekan of St. Paul Comprehensive Secondary School, Bauchi, Bauchi State; and Ali Uchechukwu Michael of Federal Government Academy, Suleja, Niger State. Akinfoluhan recorded 95 per cent in the qualifying examination and pulled 150 points in the second round. He described his experience as exciting and expressed optimism about qualifying for the final and ultimately win the star prize. “I feel very happy to scale the hurdle, especially being my first time of participating in the competition. I hope to get to the final. I have done a lot of prayers and practice,” he said. Loluwa, 13, had scored 96 per cent in the qualifying examination and amassed 130 points in the second round. The daughter of a college principal, who aspires to become an Architect, hopes to win the ultimate prize and make her family and state proud. In the senior category, Joshua Mark of Nigerian Christian Institute, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State; and Nafisat Abdulwaheed of Reality High School, Ilesha, Osun State survived one tie-break in the first and second rounds to advance to the semi-finals. In the process, they edged out four other contestants. These were: Esther Ajani of NOWA Secondary School, Lafia, Nasarawa State; Ishaq Ibrahim of Caliphate International Schools, Gusau, Zamfara State; Egbunu Jude Idoko of St. Peters College, Idah, Kogi State and Gift Ike, Federal Government College, Owerri, Imo State.