Governor of Enugu State, Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, has reiterated the importance of even and balanced development as one of the best ways to mobilise the people for collective societal progress while also quelling the constant cries for marginalisation. Ugwuanyi, who recently spoke at the Government House Enugu, during a town-hall meeting with the Oguiyi Nike and Umunevo Nike autonomous communities in the Enugu North Local Government Area of the state noted that the cries for marginalisation in most parts of the country have their roots in the concentration of government projects in one area while paying little attention to other areas. Emphasising the commitment of his administration to continue to reflect spread and balance in the infrastructure revolution currently going on in the state, the governor reminded the gathering that such a strategy also serves to tap into the comparative potential of each section of the state with a view to building a more virile, robust and all inclusive community of people. “Each and every section of this state has their peculiar potential which God has endowed them with. We cannot fully maximize these potential and opportunities if, as leaders, we fail to take a holistic look at harnessing these opportunities and endowments for the uplift of the people and by extension, for the common good of the state,” he stated. While appreciating the people of the community for their disposition to peace, a development he attributed as one of the planks of the prevailing safe and secure atmosphere in the state, Governor Ugwuanyi called on the people to sustain their predisposition to peace, linking that to economic prosperity. “Peace and security provides the most fertile ground for a people to exploit the potentials of nature around them and profitably express their God-given talents and learned capabilities. A crises-prone environment, on the other hand, limits the realization of these potentials, constraining growth and leaving power in the hands of a few strong men whose interests and intentions are against the common good,” he said, adding that with the peaceful co-existence he has observed between the indigenous people of Oguiyi Nike and others, the Enugu capital city will continue to be economically viable. He promised to address some of the concerns and challenges the people have faced, especially with regard to the fallouts of a rapidly urbanised Enugu and called on them to continue to help nurture the prevailing cordial relationship between the people and the state government. Responding on behalf of the two autonomous communities, Chairman Oguiyi Nike Town Union, Hon. Emeka Ede, expressed appreciation to the government for its commitment to the welfare of all segments of the people of the state and urged his people to always be disposed towards supporting the developmental policies and ideas of the governor. He expressed satisfaction with the strides of the governor in the infrastructure revamp of the state and gave the commitment of the people to continue to uphold peace and also support the government in its efforts to build a peaceful and prosperous state.