By John Shiklam in Kaduna Suleiman Hunkuyi, the senator representing Kaduna North senatorial zone, has declared that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) will not return to power in 2019. Hunkuyi who recently defected from the APC to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) spoke on Monday at a reception for him and other APC defectors at the Kaduna International Trade Fair. He urged Governor Nasir El-Rufai to use the remaining few months ahead to pack his belongings from the Government House. Hunkuyi who spoke on behalf of other APC defectors said the APC had dealt mercilessly with the electorate who voted them in in 2015, saying that it will be the turn of the electorate to deal with the party in the 2019 general elections. “God gives power but the APC regimes in Kaduna and Nigeria have dealt with the electorate and the electorate will retaliate at the right time. “We don’t insult, but we tell the truth. I am telling El-Rufai to use the remaining time he has in office to pack his things and be prepared to leave Government House. “We don’t insult, but they will feel pains by the truth we speak” Hunkuyi said.
According to him, the PDP is now stronger, fully rebranded, and ready to take over power at the state and federal level. He said it was an error that El-Rufai was brought on board as governor of Kaduna state, and urged the people of the state to forgive him for the role he played in ensuring the governor’s election in 2015. According to Hunkuyi, the APC in Kaduna is dead, stressing that “the engine of APC has been removed along with the tyres.”
“We came to join hands with our friends to liberate our friends from the bondage of APC in Kaduna State. “Let’s join hand with our great party, the PDP, and change things. Without PDP, there would be no end to untold hardship Nigerians would be suffering. “We are praying to God to help us to be united, to be successful in reclaiming our state and country,” he said. Welcoming the defectors, the Kaduna State Chairman of the PDP, Felix Hassan Hyet, said he was delighted that Nigerians are beginning to understand the deception of the APC.
He thank Hunkuyi and others for returning back to the PDP saying that the task to liberate Kaduna and Nigeria is a task that must be achieved in 2019. According to Hyet “Hunkuyi brought El-Rufai to power. I believe he has realised his mistake and would work hard towards correcting that by helping to send him packing from the Government House,” he said.