The maritime security contract, which is a contractor-financed programme, awarded to an Israeli firm, HLSI Security Firms and Technology, by the federal government attracted needless controversy because of entrenched interest and politics, writes Eromosele Abiodun The Gulf of Guinea remains one of the most dangerous waters in the world for merchant shipping. At least 52 Nigerian pirate attacks occurred in 2016. According to a report by EOS Risk Group, the majority of attacks off Nigeria in 2016 involved oil/chemical tankers, followed by offshore support vessels. Bulk carriers, containerships, general cargo vessels, LNG tankers, fishing vessels, a refrigerated cargo vessel, a dredger and a vehicle carrier were also subjected to attacks during the year, according to the group. “Target vessels were mostly tankers, which recorded 48 per cent of the attacks; OSV recorded 21; Containership four per cent while Liquefied Natural Gas vessels had four per cent of the attacks,” it stated. The report indicated that about 21 per of the cases had armed security presence onboard when attacked, while they were absent in 69 cases, and five cases were unknown. Even now, incessant pirate attacks and kidnappings are taking an alarming toll on shipping in Nigeria’s territorial waters and the Gulf of Guinea. This year alone, freight costs have risen six times, amid fears insurance could also be hit. Statistics from the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) showed that in the first four months of 2018, the number of incidents significantly increased in the region, with 36 reported, against 17 the same period in 2017. Last month, 11 crew members of FWN Rapide were taken hostage off Port Harcourt, spending four weeks in captivity. The mariners were sailing on board the Dutch-flagged vessel from Takoradi in Ghana, when they came under attack. In February, five armed pirates attacked ST Marseille, a Luxembourg-flagged tanker as it anchored in the Bay of Cotonou. They had approached the tanker in a speedboat and opened fire. The same month, armed pirates attacked two vessels in separate incidents off the Coast of Bonny Island. The development has left stakeholders worried that foreign shipping companies may introduce a minimum of $200,000 (about N72 million) as insurance premium before calling at the nation’s ports. It was in a bid to stop the attacks and avoid huge insurance and shipping cost that the federal government awarded maritime security contract to an Israeli firm, HLSI Security Firms and Technology. The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi had late last year announced that the federal government has engaged an Israeli firm to police Nigeria’s territorial waters for three years and train members of the Nigerian Navy and security personnel after which the Nigerian security agents will take over the security of the nation’s waters. He stated this while speaking at the World Maritime Day with the theme, “Connecting Ships, Ports and People,” held in Lagos. Ameachi, who did not mention the name of the Israeli firm disclosed that the development will save shipping companies over $180 million (N55.62 billion) in security fees adding that Maersk alone pays $18 million annually for its ships to be escorted in and out of Nigeria. According to him, “Security is a major challenge globally especially in the Gulf of Guinea. There have been major concerns and developments to address the issues of Maritime security along the Gulf of Guinea. Various initiatives, actions, programmes and centres/organisation have been developed and established to counter this insecurity. This administration has seen the need for all relevant maritime agencies to synergise to improve efficiency in our ports.” Politics and Animosity However, the news of the award of the contract did not go down well with bosses of the Nigerian Navy giving that it has the primary responsibility to secure Nigeria’s territorial waters. Before the contract was awarded, the Nigerian Navy was pushing for NIMASA to contribute 1 per cent of its revenue to the Navy to enable it acquire materials to secure Nigerian waters. To this end, a bill requiring the amendment of the NIMASA Act was sent to the national assembly. NIMASA opposed moves by the Nigerian Navy seeking an amendment of the NIMASA Act to contribute 1 per cent of its revenue to the Nigerian Navy. The move was condemned by industry players during a One-Day Public Hearing on, “A bill for an Act to Amend the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency Act, No. 17 2017 to increase the functions of the agency; and for related matters (HB; 1131 & 1178),” before the House of Representative Committee on Maritime Safety, Education and Administration. Speaking at the event, the President, African hip Owners Association and former Director General of NIMASA, Mr. Temisan Omatseye, pointed out clearly that it will be against all international conventions of the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) entered into by Nigeria, which has to be implemented. Also lending his voice to condemn the proposed bill, the Chairman, Ports Consultative Council, Kunle Folarin, noted that Nigeria was a critical stakeholder in the international maritime space, hence the need to exercise caution in amending any bill that may jeopardise the future of Nigeria in the global maritime sector. He said, “NIMASA’s efforts on regional co-operation should be consolidated, rather than trying to usurp some of the functions of the agency as it will affect the day-to-day operations of NIMASA in carrying out its mandates.” He, however, was quick to caution that the House of Representatives Committee on Maritime Safety, Education and Administration should ensure that NIMASA and Nigerian Navy should not work at cross-purposes as they are both critical to the safety and security of the nation’s territorial waterways. House of Representatives Committee on the Nigerian Navy was not also happy about the contract. According to the reps, the contract was not just a security breach but also defies the local content law, which promulgates patronising made in Nigeria goods and services. The Chairman of the Committee, Abdussamad Dasuki, representing Kebbe/Tambuwal Federal Constituency, Sokoto, disclosed this during an on-the-spot assessment of the units and bases under the Western Naval Command in Lagos. Also, the contract raised eyebrows with several civil society organisations calling it an aberration to the sovereignty of national security. Concurring, Dasuki said ceding the patrol of waterways and other critical national assets to such foreign companies was to the detriment of the navy, whose constitutional role it is to safeguard and patrol the coastal waters and the nation’s Exclusive Economic Zones (EEZ). According to Dasuki, the maritime trust fund falls under maritime security and anti-piracy, thus the move to circumvent the navy out of its constitutional roles will not be allowed to happen. “One of the challenges we are having at the house of reps, has to do with the sister agency of the government, which is NIMASA. A situation whereby it is giving out jobs that are ideal for the Nigerian Navy and contractors in Nigeria to foreigners, especially jobs that have to do with our security, is not acceptable. “We as a committee are very much against it. We have the Nigerian Navy and it should be empowered. We should promote what we do locally so I see no reason why we cannot contract the over $180 million job to them. It is not acceptable and we have made it loud and clear. We will continue to work until something is done about that particular situation,” he said. Also, on January 30, 2018, the House of Representatives mandated its Committee on Public Petitions chaired by Uzoma Nkem-Abonta to investigate the contract. However, Amaechi was alleged to have refused to make the contract documents available to the committee leading to the probe being stalled. “We have been demanding these documents and we have received no responses. This is about the 8th hearing on this issue. If the contractual documents and agreements cannot be produced within the next 72hours, we will be forced to close this matter and make our recommendations to the House,” Nkem-Abonta lamented at the committee’s sitting. Cancellation Following the criticisms by several maritime stakeholders and security experts, who accused the minister of moving against a similar, but much cheaper contract signed by the previous administration only to replace it with his own version, President Muhammadu Buhari terminated the controversial contract via a memo dispatched by his Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari. The president had in the memo, directed the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, to terminate the contract with immediate effect. He also ordered the National Security Adviser (NSA) and the Nigerian Intelligence Agency (NIA) to investigate how the contractor obtained security clearance for the job without an end user certificate. Buhari also ordered HLSI Security Systems and Technologies to supply items equivalent to the $50 million upfront payment it received from government. Denial Speaking on the matter last week, the Director General, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) Dakuku Peterside, said the federal government only suspended the contract to allow for proper scrutiny of the Israeli firm and claims of impropriety of the contract. According to Peterside, the firm has since been given clean bill of health to proceed with the contract after the conclusion of the investigation. He said, “At some point, there were issues raised about the status of the firm and indeed the president directed that further investigations be made on the status and record of the firm. The status of the firm had been investigated earlier, but new information came up and based on that, the president directed that the firm be further investigated. The firm was further investigated and given a clean bill of health and of course, we are on with the project. “It was a contractor financed programme. They are supposed to deliver a number of security items including special mission vessels, special mission aircraft, helicopters, command and control centre and retrain a number of our military personnel. That contract is still in place. Nobody has cancelled the contract.” Peterside explained that the contract awarded to HLSI was not to take over maritime security in Nigeria but to train and complement the effort of the nation’s security personnel. “For us, tackling maritime crime is a top priority issue which can never be ignored. Maritime security does not put the country in a good light in the international community so I can say emphatically that the programme is still on,” he added.