The leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ifedore local government area of Ondo State, Wednesday, adopted a former Commissioner for Information in the state, Mr. Kayode Akinmade, as their candidate for the February 2019 House of Representatives election in the constituency. Their Idanre counterparts had earlier adopted Akinmade as their candidate. Leader of the party in Ifedore and former Accountant General of the State, Mr. Lawrence Ibukun, said Akinmade had all it takes to give quality representation to the people of the federal constituency. According to him, the aspirant’s experience as a former Special Adviser on Media to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and two-time Commissioner for Information in Ondo State would assist him in no small measure to bring quality development to the area. He said that the party decided to toe the line of bringing forth a sole candidate in the federal constituency in order to checkmate people who did not have good intentions for the constituency. He urged Akinmade to see Ifedore and Idanre as his people and ensure that equity and fair play define and dominate his legislative agenda. Ibukun advised the leadership of the party in both Idanre and Ifedore to go back home and work assiduously for the emergence of the party’s standard-bearer in the election. Earlier, Akinmade promised to provide quality representation and ensure equity and fairness in the distribution of federal projects in the constituency. According to him, the era of marginalising Idanre/Ifedore in the National Assembly is gone for good. He assured the people that he would use all his political networks to ensure that the anomalies of the past against the constituency were remedied. He promised to be with the people at all times and use the instrumentality of legislation to provide quality representation to the people. Also speaking, a former governorship candidate from the constituency, Engr. Dele Osakuade, said that the constituency was lucky to have an aspirant in the caliber of Akinmade coming out to contest the House of Representatives election.