Adibe Embryonic in Benin City The wind of defection blowing across the country is about to take a swoop on the home state of the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole as eight lawmakers in the Edo State House of Assembly have threatened to defect to the other political parties. It was not clear as at press time which political parties the lawmakers are planning to defect to, but the planned defection of the eight lawmakers, according to sources, is because they were not sure of getting the APC ticket. A source close to the lawmakers who are about to leave APC, hinged the planned defection on the ban on campaign by the Edo APC leadership, which according to him, has heighten fears of the lawmakers that it might be late for them to get nomination of other parties if they fail to secure APC tickets. One of the defecting state legislators who preferred anonymity, blamed the looming mass defection partly on the lack of political patronage by Governor Godwin Obaseki. The lawmaker who told selected journalists that many of their constituency projects were not funded by Governor Obaseki, added that many of his colleagues do not know what they would use to campaign to their constituents even if they get the APC ticket. THISDAY gathered that Oshiomhole, had scheduled to meet with all aggrieved APC leaders in the state today (Thursday) to resolve all issues which was botched at the last meeting owing to two reasons. Oshiomhole had assured APC supporters who came to receive him at the Bénin Airport last Saturday that the party would reward all those who worked for the party. “I want to assure you that the tradition of carry our people along will be sustained. You represent what I call our infantry division. You are the ones on election day who ensure that our voters come out. You are the ones who ensure that the PDP rigging machine was defeated. We must keep you as a standing point, together we will match on and will ensure that everyone who works is looked after. “I know there are people with all kinds of stories but let me assure you that after the storm the weather will settle. Trust me, as you have not abandoned me, I will never abandon you. To our youths, I want to particularly appeal to you; don’t lose faith. There will be work, there will be participation; there will be involvement. We will not throw away anybody. “Nobody will be used and dumped. If yesterday has come beautiful, tomorrow will be better,” he explained.