Posterity Media will on Thursday (today) hold the fifth edition of its business forum at the Lagos Oriental Hotel, Lekki. A statement by the organisers said the 5th Posterity Media Business Forum themed, “Building Successful and Sustainable Businesses,” will focus attention on entrepreneurship in Nigeria and how young businesses can be built into successful and sustainable brands that add value to their owners and stakeholders, help generate employment and create wealth for the nation. The forum, which Posterity Media has hosted since 2011, is a credible independent platform set up with the aim of engaging business, political, academic, media and other civil society leaders to proffer uncommon insights and ideas for national development. Through the forum, speakers and panelists engage other industry stakeholders as well as the media on creative and innovative ways of engendering renewed growth in the specific sector being focused upon towards creating a conducive environment where citizens can pursue their dreams and aspirations and meaningfully contribute to national development. Speakers who will share insights on the theme of the event with participants include Mr. Femi Taiwo, Executive Director, LEAP Africa, and Mr. Joe Odiase, MD/CEO, Seventh Strategy Limited. Leading telecoms company, MTN, will also be at the forum to discuss various solutions they’ve developed to promote growing businesses and drive their profitability. The forum will also include special presentations, experience-sharing, question and answer session, and provide networking opportunities for participants. “We are pleased to be hosting the 5th edition of the Posterity Media Business Forum (PMBF). Nigeria needs more businesses to not just survive but consistently thrive, become successful and sustainable for the long term,” said Posterity Media CEO, Mr. O’Femi Kolawole. “We believe the event will generate fresh discourse around this key subject and offer a valuable learning opportunity for entrepreneurs and aspiring business owners who will be participating at the event aside offering a platform for businesses to further project what they do,” he said