By Nseobong Okon-Ekong NIGERIA’s biggest family festival, Nickelodeon NickFest in partnership with Maltina is set to take place in Lagos on September 29th and 30th. Viacom International Media Networks Africa (VIMN Africa) the leading provider of premium 360-degree entertainment is continuing their partnership with Maltina following the great success for both brands in 2017. NickFest 2018 will deliver a fun-filled experience for families promising to be a captivating experience for various age groups with unique family-friendly events. The weekend will feature Nickelodeon’s superstar characters in brand new shows: the world’s most popular, irreverent sea sponge, SpongeBob Square Pants; Adventure Bay’s intrepid pups, Skye, Rubble Marshall and Chase from Paw Patrol: the feisty and fun Dora the Explorer with her animal rescuer cousin, Diego and Dora’s best pal, Boots. Shimmer and Shine, the two genies who can solve any problem will join in the fun as part of the amazing character lineup. Kids and parents can look forward to lots of singing, dancing and pure laugh aloud fun as they are whisked away to their favorite Nickelodeon characters worlds. Kids and parents can also look forward to seeing the fun and friendly face of Maltina’s Happy character. This year Happy will be centre stage at the popular Maltina Happy Land atNickFest. For the first time, Happy will be performing his very own show which will surprise and delight kids and parents at Maltina Happy Land. The popular Slime Zone will have more gooey green slime and a number of slime activities for the Nickelodeon Slime fans. A major highlight of NickFest is The Celebrity Slime Challenge where popular personalities are slimed green in an effort to raise both awareness and funds for children support through NGO projects in Nigeria. Alex Okosi, Executive Vice President and Managing Director for VIMN Africa and BET International said: “NickFest delivers an amazing experience for families to enjoy the best of Nickelodeon. We are thrilled to bring the festival back to Nigeria in partnership with Maltina for a second consecutive year.” Ngozi Nkwoji, The Portfolio Manager, Non-Alcoholic Drinks for Nigerian Breweries Plc, added “This is indeed an exciting partnership for Maltina. We recognize that we are all busy and more often than not, life just gets in the way, making family time that much more important. As a brand that is all about nourishing family moments, we are proud to partner with Nickelodeon again to bring all the excitement of Nickfest to the whole family. Nickfest is one of those events that the whole family can enjoy and is an event that nourishes those precious family moments.” This year NickFest will welcome more than 4,000 children and families to the Federal Palace transforming the venue into a bright orange Nickelodeon and Maltina wonderland. Two shows will be held on both days. Look out for details about the performers and hosts soon.