Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti A United States of America agency, Project CURE, in partnership with Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti (ABUAD) has trained experts in new techniques to banish the rampant child mortality rate in the country. In this regard, the agency has trained medical workers of the university, particularly those working at the 400-bed multi-system Afe Babalola University Teaching Hospital (ABUTH) on the new medical initiative tagged: ‘Helping a Baby Breathe’ that will make the baby to survive after delivery. At the one week training, the medical practitioners were trained by experts from Project Cure, a philanthropic agency which is renowned for giving aids to individuals and nations to boost the
healthcare needs of the people. At a dinner organised by ABUAD for the experts from the US Agency — Dr Carlos Ramos and Dr Lee Jones — weekend, ABUAD’s founder, Chief Afe Babalola (SAN), praised the President/Chief Executive Officer of the agency, Dr Douglas Jackson, for believing in humanity. Babalola lamented that the menace of child and maternal mortality had rendered many children motherless and vice versa owing to pervasive ignorance among Africans. “Project CURE has been of immense benefits to African nations. They have given over 300 sophisticated equipment to many hospitals in African continent and ABUTH was a beneficiary of this benevolence meant to tackle poor healthcare needs of the citizens. These equipment ran into millions of dollars. “When I was born some 90 years ago, deaths among children of between a day old and one year were high. Out of 10 deliveries, hardly could you see two surviving. “My mother had 10 deliveries, only four of us survived. Even as we speak now, we still have more mothers dying during childbirths in Africa. “We appreciate Project CURE for this partnership, it will help in exposing our experts in modern techniques of making a child survive after birth. “We decided to partner you, because this university was established to make a difference in Nigeria and we assure you that we are going to extend the knowledge gained to other sections of Ekiti to benefit,” he said. After presenting certificates of participation to the participants, Dr Ramos said the first minute of a child after its birth called golden minute is very crucial for the survival of a new born baby, urging the experts to take the techniques to help the baby breathe serious to reduce child mortality in Nigeria. According to Ramos, “Project CURE is committed to improving the wellbeing ofthe people and that is why this partnership is going to be a long termone. “This helping baby survive initiative is a crucial aspect of medicine and it goes along with making mothers survive during labour, the two are like Siamese twins. “We appreciate ABUAD for going beyond the shores of Nigeria to seek help on how to improve the health sector, because it remains the most crucial aspect of medicine. “We want the experts to spread the gospel by teaching others the new technique in making a baby survive by making them jettison the old style of slapping or turning new babies upside down for them to take the first breath,” he advised. The Provost, College of Health Sciences, Prof. Rotimi Sanya, pointed out that the initiative becomes very important on the premise that not all the babies could breathe after delivery except they are aided medically.