Olawale Ajimotokan in Abuja Super Eagles winger, Victor Moses, has announced his retirement from international football for Nigeria at the age of 27 years. The Chelsea star played 37 times for Nigeria, scoring 12 times since making his debut in 2012. He had previously represented England up to Under-21 level, while coming through the ranks at Crystal palace. “I have experienced some of the best moments of my life wearing the Super Eagles shirt and have memories with me that will last a lifetime,” he said. “However, I feel that now is the right time to step away in order to be able to focus fully on my club career and young family, as well as to allow the next generation the opportunity to step up and to flourish. “Thank you for the memories and good luck to the team for the future.” Moses won the Africa Cup of Nations with Nigeria in 2013, and represented the nation at two World Cups, in 2014 and 2018. Super Eagles were knocked out at the group stage in Russia this summer, having beaten Iceland but suffered defeats by Croatia and Argentina. Moses’ Super Eagles and Chelsea teammate, Kenneth Omeruo, has been sent on loan for a seventh time by English Premier League club Chelsea since he joined them in 2012. This time, the Nigerian defender will spend the season with Spanish La Liga side Leganes. The 24-year-old started for Super Eagles against Iceland and Argentina at this summer’s World Cup in Russia. Omeruo, who is yet to play a competitive game for Chelsea, spent a second spell at Turkish side Kasımpasa last season. He has also been loaned to Dutch side ADO Den Haag, Middlesbrough in England for two seasons and another Turkish side Alanyaspor. Chelsea extended his deal with them until 2020 at the beginning of last season before loaning him to Kasimpasa. Omeruo can play at centre-back or right-back and is described on the Leganes website as a “versatile defender with a powerful physique that means he is strong in the air”. His 40 caps for the Super Eagles also include appearances at the Confederations Cup and the Africa Cup of Nations.