By Omololu Ogunmade in Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday in Daura, Katsina State, explained the reason he trekked 800 metres in Daura after Eid prayers on Tuesday, saying he didn’t do so to prove his fitness. In a related development, President Buhari has said that more Nigerians were appreciative of the implementation of his policies and projects and that recent electoral victory by his party is a pointer to ultimate victory for the APC in 2019 eections. A statement by Malam Garba Shehu, his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, said Buhari made the clarification on his 800-metre walk during a meeting with representatives of the five local governments in Daura Emirate, explaining that the walk was not meant to score any cheap political goal. ‘‘This is my constituency, the people came out in their large numbers to see me and the car in which I was being driven had tinted windows. ‘‘They were not seeing me. So, I came down so they could see me. I didn’t need to convince anyone about my health and the decision to contest for a second term – a decision that I made public in April this year,’’ he was quoted as saying. The statement also said the president used the opportunity of the meeting with his kinsmen to inform them that he had directed the Ministry of Agriculture and Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to review the processes of the issuance of loans to smallholder farmers. ‘‘We want to make it easier for them to assess the loans, particularly the underprivileged people in the society. It has become necessary for the government to do this because banks will insist on collaterals which majority of farmers do not have. ‘‘For our agriculture policy to succeed, we must be able to reach small farm holders with loans without collaterals. Collaterals are always a problem with smallholder farmers,’’ he reportedly said. According to the statement, the president highlighted the achievements of his administration on local rice productions which he said had expectedly led to the reduction of imports by over 90 percent. It also said the president expressed delight that young people were returning to the farms, reaffirming federal government’s commitment to implement policies to promote agriculture. Furthermore, the statement said the group’s spokesman, Yusuf Bello Maiadua, while speaking on behalf of the civil society groups in Daura Emirate, applauded the president on his numerous achievements. It quoted him as saying, ‘‘You have made us proud, the economy is back on the path of growth and you have laid a solid foundation for the development of the country.” lt also said Maiadua who told the president about the plans of the Daura Emirate to organise a massive rally for his 2019 campaign as soon as the ban on political campaign is lifted, invited him to make out time to attend.  Buhari: Nigerians Appreciate Our Programmes, Also yesterday, President Buhari in Daura, said more Nigerians were appreciative of the implementation of policies and projects of the federal government aimed at improving the standard of living in the country. He made the remarks while receiving the leadership of Kano Traders Association led by Alhaji Ahmed Nuhu Sani, Chairman of Kanti Kwari Traders Association, pledging that his administration will not relent in doing the needful to create jobs, expand trade and encourage greater productivity. Garba Shehu, said the president told members of the business community that under the Government Enterprises and Empowerment Programme (GEEP) and Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP), more traders and farmers had expanded their trade and increased food production.  Buhari: Recent APC Victories Are Proofs We’ll Win 2019 Polls In a related development, President Buhari yesterday in his Daura country home, said the string of victories recorded by the APC in recent elections in Ekiti, Bauchi, Katsina and Kogi States is a sufficient proof that the party would win the 2019 elections. He made the remarks while receiving representatives of the 34 chairmen of the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON) in Katsina State. He was quoted as saying, “Coming against the backdrop of the victory in Ekiti governorship election, the string of victory by our party, the APC, is a clear indication of the way things will go in 2019. ‘‘For those who are discerning; those who have ears and eyes, they will see, hear and understand. Those who don’t understand are entitled to their mistaken assumptions.” The president, the statement added, emphasised that the victories in the recent polls are indeed “the sign of things to come.” Garba’s statement also said at another meeting with the leaders of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Katsina State chapter, Buhari expressed his continued determination to respect the diversity of the country, saying he will run a government that is fair and just to all Nigerians. Shehu said the president thanked the CAN leadership in the state for living in peace and harmony with other religious groups, and for supporting his administration in its policies and programmes. According to him, the State Chairman of CAN, Rev. Nelson Onyeakachukwu, and Coordinator of the Christian Pilgrimage in the State, Haruna Danjuma, expressed happiness over the president’s performance, describing him as the state’s good ambassador who had made everyone proud. “Christians in Katsina are happy with both Governor Masari in the State and yourself at the center. We will continue to support both of you,” he said the CAN leaders told the president.