Mohammed Aminu in Sokoto The Sokoto State Governor, Alhaji Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, Wednesday defected from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), saying President Muhammadu Buhari has failed to meet the yearnings of Nigerians. Addressing party supporters at the Government House, Sokoto, Tambuwal said his decision to leave the ruling party was as a result of the inability of Buhari to tackle insecurity and improve the living conditions of Nigerians. He maintained that majority of Nigerians are currently facing hardship, frustration and penury as a result of the ineptitude of the present administration. Tambuwal recalled that he left PDP for APC in 2014 as a result of bad governance, adding that not much has changed in the last three years “We left PDP as a result of bad governance to join APC but today not much has been achieved. Things are really getting worse. “Therefore, with other leaders, we decided to form a new force to fine-tune and restructure the polity for a better Nigeria. “The situation of our country especially the economy and security is getting worse. People are being killed in Zamfara on daily basis. The situation of the common man is very precarious. “That is why we decided to join forces with other progressive Nigerians to get a new competent leadership that can deliver the goods and rescue the country from the current hardship,” he said. Tambuwal posited that the people of Sokoto have not benefited from any single project from the federal government in the last three years. “As you all can testify, Sokoto has not benefited from any single federal government project in the last three years. “So, the people of Sokoto are fed up with the current situation and called on us to intervene and dump the APC,” he averred. In his remarks, a prominent politician in the state, Alhaji Isa Bajini, said President Muhammad Buhari has failed to tackle insecurity while the fight against corruption has been only against perceived opponents. He stated that the APC-led federal government has not done anything in terms of provision of infrastructural projects for the benefit of the people of Sokoto. “We have nothing to show for supporting APC in the last three years. So, we have no option than to leave APC because the people of Sokoto did not benefit from any single project. “We are calling for Tambuwal to come out and fight for us,” he stressed.