By Deji Elumoye in Abuja A member of the National Assembly, Senator Isah Misau, has said that the National Assembly has no plans whatsoever to commence impeachment proceedings against President Muhammadu Buhari. The Senator representing Bauchi Central in a statement issued in Abuja on Thursday in apparent response to insinuation made by former Governor of Lagos State, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, in Uyo on Wednesday that the National Assembly was planning to impeach President Buhari urged Nigerians to disregard such unjustifiable talk by the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC). He described Tinubu’s assertion as “a mere partisan rethoric aimed at catching the attention of the crowd at the rally planned for the formal defection of Senator Godswill Akpabio into the party.”
Senator Misau who is the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Navy expressed surprise that a politician of Tinubu’s calibre will be playing politics with a serious issue like the impeachment of the President of the country just because he wanted to catch the attention of a crowd, adding that politicians at his level should not be engaging in unnecessary saber-rattling and empty speculation. According to him, “we, members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the Senate, have no plan to impeach President Muhammadu Buhari as there is no need for that process and we are not contemplating it.”
Our focus right now , he further said, is to defend democracy and its institutions, fight for enthronement of rule of law, independence of the legislature and the judiciary and ensuring good governance.
“If Tinubu has any concrete, reliable and verifiable evidence to the contrary, he should come forward and prove it. A man like him should not be getting carried away by the crowd and making claims that have no basis.
“We therefore urge all Nigerians and members of the international community to ignore that claim. There is no basis for anybody to make such claim. It is a mere fabrication and a stunt pulled to please the partisan crowd to which it was uttered”, Misau further said.