Eromosele Abiodun The Rivers state government has commended the National Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) for its partnership with the Port Harcourt Chamber of Commerce Industry Mines and Agriculture (PHCCIMA), which it said has led to the development of the state. Governor of the State, Nyesom Wike stated this when NACCIMA President, Iyalode Alaba Lawson, led a delegation on a courtesy call on him. Represented by the Deputy Governor, Dr. (Mrs). Ipalibo Harry Banigo, the governor commended NACCIMA for the tremendous support given to PHCCIMA. This followed the third quarterly council meeting of NACCIMA, hosted by PHCCIMA in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. The governor announced the allocation of a trade fair ground to Port Harcourt Chamber of Commerce at the Greater Port Harcourt City area. He said the present administration is committed to keeping its promises to ensure an enabling business environment, made to the Chamber of Commerce in 2015. According to him, issues like the harmonisation of taxes to end double taxation, issuance of Certificate of Occupancy, provision of massive infrastructure among others that have been fulfilled, are aimed at making Rivers State an investors’ paradise. Similarly, he said to show commitment to stimulating the state economy, the promise of allocating a permanent trade fair ground has been accomplished with the allocation of a massive and strategically located land at the Greater Port Harcourt City. He urged the federal government to revamp ports in the South-South, complete revitalisation of the Port Harcourt International airport as this would improve on the ease of doing business in the Zone and also decongest the Lagos Ports. In her remark, Lawson described NACCIMA as the voice of the organised private sector (OPS) in Nigeria, she expressed delight that the public-private partnership was working in Rivers State because of the political will and commitment of Wike. She expressed gratitude to the Rivers State Government for allocating trade fair ground to the chamber of commerce in a strategic position, saying this when in use will stimulate the state economy and attract investors.