The Vice Chancellor of Anchor University, Professor Johnson Afolayan, and some members of the school’s senate, recently paid an official visit to the Federal Institute of Industrial Research Oshodi (FIIRO) in Lagos, to kick start a working partnership and to explore possible ways in which the institute can assist in promoting the ideals of the university. Speaking on the reasons for the visit, the VC said his university intends to harness FIIRO’s wealth of technologies for the upliftment of its academic programmes to meet with world standards. He added that FIIRO will come handy to assist in giving the students qualitative entrepreneurial training, stressing the need for both institutions to formalise the ensuing relationship by signing a memorandum of understanding. According to him, “there would be exchange programmes between the institutions in which scientists and researchers from FIIRO can come over to Anchor university for sabbaticals, jointly organise workshops and seminars and a host of others. Earlier in her remarks, the Director General of FIIRO, Professor Gloria Elemo stressed the need for strategic collaboration noting that no singular organisation can realise its dreams in isolation. She made reference to collaborative effort made by FIIRO in time past with Landmark, Covenant, Mountain Top universities, among others, saying that the collaboration can be done mainly in the area of entrepreneurial development. “As Anchor university work towards making their students imbibes the culture of self-employment, FIIRO can bring in her technical know-how. Formalising this relationship, we hope to work together for staff exchange, sabbatical leaves, use Anchor laboratories amd internships. All will be geared towards human capacity development that will help for first grade graduates from Anchor University.” FIIRO’s helmsman later made a power point presentation of some of her organisation’s technologies to the guests, stressing that they are highly sustainable. She said over 500,000 five Nigerians have benefitted from FIIRO’s technologies. The visitors later embarked on a guided tour of FIIRO’s facilities.