By Mohammed Aminu in Sokoto The victims of the flood disaster in Goronyo Local Government Area of Sokoto State in 2010, Friday embarked on a peaceful protest, accusing the past administration in the state of neglecting them. The victims, who came out in their hundreds, comprising men, women and children, marched to the 400 housing units initiated by the past administration of Senator Aliyu Wamakko. The housing project was inaugurated by the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar III May 28, 2015 with about 200 houses completed while the remaining 200 others were left uncompleted. Addressing journalists, the spokesman of the group, Malam Aliyu Bako, said the aim of the protest was to call on the government to come to their aid as most of the victims are homeless. According to him, they decided to embark on the protest in order to demand the fulfillment of the pledge made by the former Governor Wamakko to provide them shelter eight years ago. “As you can see since 2015, when the project was inaugurated, we have not heard anything from the government concerning the completion of the houses or any move to share them to us. “Moreover, even the four people who got certificates of occupancy during the commissioning of the houses were shocked, as the certificates were collected by the officials later,” Bako said. He noted that the past administration had received so much support from various organisations within and outside the country on their behalf but failed to assist them. “We are aware that the immediate past administration received support from various organisations on our behalf, but we have not been given any assistance. “So, we want the federal government to investigate the matter and punish the culprits,” he stated. Also speaking, an elder in the area, Malam Muhammadu Madawaki, called on the government to thoroughly investigate the matter. “We are aware that the government had paid for the completion of the 400 housing units, but the contractor abandoned the project at the end of the last administration. “Therefore, we want the government to investigate the matter and deal decisively with the contractor,” he stressed. Reacting to the allegation, Wamakko, in a statement signed by his media aide, Bashir Rabe Manu, described the protesters as a sponsored group of some jobless rabble rousers, who could not in anyway diminish the tangible achievements of the former governor of the state. He maintained that Wamakko had never abandoned the 2010 flood victims, just as the houses were logically started, completed and commissioned. “It is therefore bemusing when a faceless group of some doubting Thomases who on Thursday, August 23, 2018, organised a melodrama in the name of a so called peaceful demonstration, against Senator Wamakko, whose pedigree as a governor then, and a senator now, remained unprecedented, as well as unparalleled,” the statement added.