Former France forward, Thierry Henry, has agreed to become the new manager of French Ligue 1 side, Girondis Bordeaux, according to reports in France. The Arsenal legend walked away from his Sky Sports punditry work after last season with a view to taking on a position as number-one in a coaching job. After a successful spell shadowing Roberto Martinez as his assistant for Belgium at this summer’s World Cup in Russia, Henry appears to be set to embark on his own journey. RMC claim Henry has said yes to the Ligue 1 club following the sacking of Gus Poyet, who labelled the club’s board a ‘disgrace’. The former Sunderland boss was furious at the decision to sell Gaetan Laborde behind his back. And the players refused to train in protest, but the decision has not been changed, and now Henry looks set to come in as the Uruguayan’s replacement. Meanwhile, Filipe Luis has revealed he wants to leave Atletico Madrid for Paris Saint-Germain, according to Cadena SER. The left back, who has fallen behind Lucas Hernandez in the pecking order, wants to complete a move before the European transfer deadline on August 31. The French champions are willing to pay the 32-year-olds’ £27million release clause as they hunt for a replacement for Yuri Berchiche. Berchiche joined from Real Sociedad and spent a year in Paris before returning to Spain with Athletic Bilbao this summer. PSG want to make more signings having added just three permanent faces to the squad. Kylian Mbappe made his loan from Monaco permanent for £160m, while Gianluigi Buffon joined for free from Juventus. The club has also spent £33m on 21-year-old defender Thilo Kehrer from Schalke. Atletico Madrid has proved more active, bringing in seven new faces. World Cup winner Thomas Lemar signed from Monaco, while striker Nikola Kalinic arrived from AC Milan for £11m. A trio of Spaniards have also been added to Diego Simeone’s team, with goalkeeper Antonio Adan from Real Betis, Celta’s Jonny Castro and Rodri of Villarreal joining Colombian Stantiago Arias in Madrid.