The Akwa Ibom State Police Command has debunked news reports that some gunmen attempted to invade the country home of Senator Godswill Akpabio in Ikot Ntuen, Ukana in Essien Udim local council of the state. The command said the story in circulation in the social media does not portray what really happened. It urged people to disregard the convoluted version in the social media, according to a statement by DSP Odiko MacDon, the command’s public relations officer. “The Command wishes to inform the general public that on 21/08/2018 at about 7:20 pm, six armed men on three motorcycles went to Gulf Safrin filling station located at Ikot Ntuen in Ukana, not far away from Senator Godswill Akpabio’s residence under the pretence of buying fuel. “Shortly after, however, they displayed their true criminal intent by dispossessing some customers and fuel attendants of their valuables and cash, shooting sporadically into the air. The hoodlums were however repelled by policemen on duty. “They took to flight, shooting into the air as they escaped. “Coincidentally, the senator was having a meeting at his residence about the same time, hence, the gun shots were wrongly presumed by some persons to have been directed at the house of the senator. “The Force would like to state categorically that there was no attack on the person or residence of Senator Godswill Akpabio (CON) and no one was hurt in the neighbourhood. It was purely an armed robbery incident which was aborted by the timely intervention of the police. “The Commissioner of Police has been in touch with the senator who unreservedly expressed satisfaction at the way the situation was handled by the police. “Meanwhile, security has been beefed around the senator’s residence and environs while efforts are ongoing to bring the perpetrators to justice. “The Commissioner (Adeyemi Ogunjemilusi) wishes to call on the general public to disregard the false information in circulation in social media and support her efforts to apprehend the fleeing felons. “The Command assures the good people of Akwa Ibom State of her commitment to the protection of their lives and property and should go about their lawful businesses,” it said.(NAN)