SUPER SATURDAY Beautiful movie star, Juliet Ibrahim never ceases to excite her fans with shocking and thought-provoking revelations. She caused another stir recently with her ‘sex strike’ move, writes Omolabake Fasogbon Calling the shots in Nollywood and Gallywood, Juliet Ibrahim mere shadow would distract attention, not to talk of her real presence. Since she hit  stardom, Juliet has always caught the attention of the media for one reason or the other. One of her most recent posts has left many questions unanswered. It reads: “Abstaining from sex, gotta zen my body. I ain’t giving you, so don’t ask, I don’t lend my body. Gotta be king status to give man my body. Hell yeah, cus a queen is what I embody.” By this, the 32-year-old entrepreneur meant that she had closed her mind and body on sex until she finds someone who is faithful and worth it by all standards. Could this be taken as a dose of her relationship advice urging ladies to give their body to one who indeed deserves it, or is it that she suspects a hit and run move by a prospective lover? Could it be that she has truly chosen to discipline herself until her rightful king come asking for her hand in marriage? Only time will tell. The beautiful light skinned actress started off her journey to eminence as an editorial and runway model in Ghana where she represented several fashion brands and also appeared in a number of television commercials. She took a shot at acting in 2005, featuring in a movie titled ‘Crime to Christ’, thereafter launched into the acting space fully. Coming to Nigeria, the single mother of eight-year-old Jayden Safo, has represented herself well, playing a number of convincing roles that made her the toast of movie makers. In addition to her intelligence, is her striking figure supported by the ‘half-caste’ mien that gives a special spice to any film she appears, hence, film lovers salivate for more of her. She once attested to this depiction when she said that she receives more favour because of her fair complexion and that being a ‘half-caste’ is a blessing to her. Being a public figure, Ibrahim is well respected for her openness,  such that gives many a cue of what and what not she is. One of such expressions that justifies this was the confession on herself to have once had sex in an open beach even in the presence of beach-goers. For Juliet, who has suddenly turned a relationship expert, going by her posts on social media platforms lately, various reports point to direct and indirect fact that she has not been too fortunate with the opposite sex in the area of settling down. It could be recalled that the shinning actress who is also of Lebanese descent used to be married to a prominent Ghanaian businessman and Chief Executive Officer of Kantanka Group, Ghana first car- making company . The marriage which produced Juliet’s first and only son lasted only four years as it crashed in 2004. Not too long ago, she found love in a Nigerian actor cum model but lost it again so soon. Juliet’s romance with Nigerian singer, Iceberg Slim raised the hope of so many people who wrongfully believed that she has attained her fair haven as far as marriage is concerned. Not too long ago, the 32-year-old aspiring musician drew attention with her posts on Instagram suggesting a sour relationship with Iceberg. Although, she tried to deny this in another reaction  as truth they say, cannot be buried for too long. QUOTE: For Juliet, who has suddenly turned a relationship expert, going by her posts on social media platforms lately, various reports point to direct and indirect fact that she has not been too fortunate with the opposite sex in the area of settling down