Olawale Ajimotokan Abuja based special home for children with special needs, IzeTherapy and Vocational Centre, has provided free counselling on trauma management and vocational skills to individuals afflicted with trauma. The centre, located in Gwarimpa in the nation’s capital, was conceived early this year by Aishat Ize Jatau, for children suffering from Down-Syndrome, Cerebral Palsy, Visual impairment, Autism, Mental and Psychological break down, Dyslexia and physical challenges, among others. After organising free screening and therapy for children afflicted with autism to mark the World Autism Day, the centre recently held another free training for adults on trauma management and vocational skills. The centre’s administrator, Mrs Mildred Abimbola, said it decided to organise trauma management programme to rehabilitate adults with social problems so that they can learn to manage some of their traumatic times and see other ways to handle stress. She said that many adults suffer from trauma through abusive marriages and death of a partner.
According to Abimbola, the centre assisted via vocational training to mitigate the effect of trauma by getting social professionals to impart knowledge to the victims of trauma. “People lose in business and they become traumatic, children fail in exams and they become traumatic and people lose their loved ones and become traumatic. The programme is actually very important because it encompasses what people will actually see as help,” Abimbola said. The vocational training covered tailoring, slippers making and leather work.
The founder of the centre, Jatau said the programme was developed to help the victims overcome the effect of trauma and be able to stand on their own. Speaking on trauma management, a social worker, Francis Onyekwe Nnadozie said people can overcome trauma by telling their own stories and seeking help from professionals like social workers, counsellors, psychologists, psychiatrists and medical doctors. He warned of the danger of culture of silence from posttraumatic disorder, saying people should speak out and seek help if they notice someone around them behaving in an unusual manner.