By Yekini Jimoh in Lokoja The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared the candidate of the All Progressive Congress, (APC) Alhaji Haruna Isah as winner of the Saturday Lokoja/Kogi House of Representatives by-election in Kogi State. The presiding officer, Professor Rotimi Ajayi of Federal University Lokoja, while announcing the result at INEC office said the APC candidate scored 26, 860 while the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Engr. Abubakar Bashir, scored 14, 845 votes to emerge second. The candidate of African Democratic Congress Alhaji Mohammed Kassim Mabo came third with a total votes of 2,984 while former Speaker Umar Ahmed of Social Democratic party, who came fourt, polled 2,916. Professor Ajayi noted that the number of registered voters during the election was 153, 470 while 51, 669 were accredited voters. “Valid votes, 48,165; votes cast, 50, 036; rejected votes, 1, 871; and total votes cancelled as a result of violence, 19, 960,” he said. Meanwhile, the Governor of Kogi State, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, has congratulated the winner of the by-election. According to him, Isah’s victory at the by-election shows that the people have pitched their tent with the All Progressives Congress to correct the effects of the years of profligacy that the former governments were known for. In a statement issued Sunday by his Chief Press Secretary, Mrs. Petra Akinti Onyegbule,
the governor charged him to remember that the people who chose to vote for him did so believing that he will represent their interest at the National Assembly. “Therefore he must do and be seen to do everything within legal ambit to ensure the interests of his constituency is promoted always. Governor Bello also extended his goodwill message to the winners of the by-elections in Bauchi South Senatorial District and Katsina North Senatorial District, Alhaji Lawal Yahaya Gumau and Alhaji Ahmad Baba Kaita, respectively. The governor also congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari, the National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, and all leaders of the APC for the successes recorded at the bye-elections to the Senate and House of Representatives in Bauchi, Katsina and Kogi. He added that it was a testament of the confidence people have in the integrity and leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari.