More teams from different parts of the globe have continued to line up for the maiden edition of the Cape Verde 2019 Africa Youth Cup billed for early next year in Praia. Mr Godson Abba Ekadi of Africa Youth Cup disclosed Monday that the youth team of Brazil’s top club, Vasco Da Gama has shown strong interest in the competition and are close to sealing their participation, while Mali’s Académie Football Club de Bamako and Napoli FC from Cote D’Ivoire have finished the registration formalities. He said yesterday that teams from Nigeria, Ghana, South Africa, Senegal, Zambia, and Equatorial Guinea are also very much in the picture. “Very soon, in fact in the days ahead, we shall be confirming more teams. But don’t forget Benfica and Kegue FC of Togo from outside Cape Verde have earlier been confirmed. “Two Cape Verdean teams have on the home front sealed their place in the event. So, things are looking up for the tournament which would be Africa’s own Dana Cup, Gothia Cup, Ibercup, Norway Cup, Paris World Games, name it,” he noted. Mr Godson stressed that participation would be on first come, first served basis since only 16 teams would be featuring in the maiden edition. “We are sticking to our rules of first come, first served. We won’t reserve a place for any team. So, teams wishing to be part of the event have to do so early or wait for the 2020 edition.” Mr Godson was full of praise for the Cape Verdean authorities for their support and cooperation, especially from the Mayor of Praia, Hon. Oscar Evora Santos. “The people we are working with in Cape Verde are wonderful people. They are determined to see that our vision of making the tournament Africa’s number one youth soccer showpiece is realized. “Kudos must go to the Mayor of Praia Hon Oscar Evora Santos, the President of the Olympic Committee, Madam Filomena Fortes, the football federation president, Mr Semedo, the director of the Estadio Nacional, Mr Orlando Mascarenhas, and the Honourable Minister of Sports Cape Verde,” Godson concluded.