By Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti Ekiti State Government has condemned the murder of Mr. Bunmi Ojo, a
former Personal Assistant to ex-Deputy National Chairman of the All
Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Segun Oni, charging police and
other security agencies to fish out his killers and bring them to
justice. In a statement issued on Saturday, by the Special Assistant to the
Governor on Public Communications and New Media, Lere Olayinka,
the government condoled with the families, friends and political
associates of the deceased, praying that God in His infinite mercies
will console and uphold his wife and children. “The manner in which Bunmi Ojo, a commissioner in the Federal
Character Commission and strong ally of Chief Segun Oni was killed is
a demonstration of the extent some devilish people can go to settle
scores with their fellow men and the security agencies must not add
this gruesome murder to the diary of unresolved murders in Nigeria. On the part of the State Government, all necessary assistance will be
provided for the security agencies to aide thorough investigation of
the murder and arrest of the perpetrators,” the government said. The state government, which called for vigilance among residents of
the state, lamented that the peace enjoyed in the state since Governor
Ayodele Fayose assumed office on October 16, 2014 had been shattered
since May this year that the APC returned with its do-or-die politics. “The state was peaceful until May 5, 2018 when members of the APC
openly disrupted the party’s primary election, with gunshots. This was
after Olalekan Taiwo, aide of one of the APC governorship aspirant, Dr
Oluwole Oluleye, had been shot on May 4. “The violence at the APC primaries was followed up by the shootings at
the party secretariat during a reception organised for Dr. Kayode
Fayemi, which left Hon. Opeyemi Bamidele and six others injured as
well as invasion of the state with thugs during the July 14
governorship election. “It has therefore become necessary for Ekiti people to be vigilant
especially now that the political environment is expected to be
confronted with the case filed by Chief Segun Oni against Dr. Fayemi,
challenging his eligibility to contest the APC primary as well as the
petition filed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Prof.
Kolapo Olusola, at the tribunal.”