Martins Ifijeh At least 49 leaders and managers of healthcare services from Nigeria, Ghana, Niger and Cameroun have graduated from the prestigious Lagos Business School (LBS), in partnership with Management Development Institute (MDI), on development programmes. The participants went through the training programme to improve their competencies in Organisational Planning, Leadership and HR Management, Social Marketing, Operations Management, Project Management, Program Monitoring and Evaluation, Health Information Systems, Financial Management, Governance and Ethics, Economics and Healthcare Management. Speaking at the graduation ceremony, the Special Guest of Honour and Commissioner for Health, Lagos State, Dr. Jide Idris, represented by the Chairman, Health Service Commission, Lagos State, Dr. Chief Bayo Aderiye, said, “We are very pleased that the programme was hosted in Lagos; being the most populous city coupled with its strategic location in West Africa. The programme will help to checkmate brain drain in the healthcare sector”. The Senior Manager, Sub-Saharan Africa, Global Community Impact, Johnson & Johnson, Mr. Rene Kiamba, said the primary goal of the MDI programme was to equip leaders and managers to lead teams in various capacities, in implementing their peculiar national health priorities and improving the effectiveness of their health systems, adding that participants were also expected to start community health improvement projects. Also speaking, Director of Programme, MDI, Dr. Obinna Muogboh, said, “With the MDI programme, the continent will be better prepared to respond to the challenges in the healthcare sector as it enhances participant’s leadership and management skills. Participants will take the delivery of healthcare services to underserved populations.” He added that, “LBS aims to be the business school with the greatest impact on the knowledge and practice of management in Africa. This development programme also aligns with the School’s missional imperative to impact the community”. The programme was delivered by outstanding faculty from Amref Health Africa, University of Cape Town Graduate Business School (UCT GSB), Ghana Institute of Management and Public Administration (GIMPA), Institute Supérieur de Management (International School of Management, ISM), Nova School of Business and Economics (Nova SBE) and Lagos Business School (LBS).