SHOWBIZ Fast-rising actress, Hauwa Allahbura, could best be described as a goddess on screen. Charming and full of life, Hauwa brings to life whichever role she acts. The former Miss FCT, TV presenter and now actress, talks to Chinedu Ibeabuchi about her career and outlook about life Who is Hauwa Allahbura? The best way to describe me is a young dreamer girl. I started off as a Beauty Queen, Miss FCT 2012 and went ahead to become a TV presenter for Village Square now called Trybe TV. I found love for acting on the Journey. I have featured in movies like Gidi Blues, 3 is a Crowd, The Eve and TV series like Tinsel and Battleground. I now manage a production company called Cut24 Production. You seem to love your dad so much. So much said about him than your mom? Those made me laugh out so loud. I actually Love and miss my mum so much but she’s unfortunately late and I don’t like to talk about it. So, I don’t get as emotional as I’m getting now. Have you always wanted to be an actor? What I’ve always wanted to be is a media mogul. I am definitely enjoying my journey in attaining that height and I must confess that I have gathered a lot of experience that is needed. I also fell in love with acting along the line and will continue to do it once in a while. So how did the acting opportunity come up? I auditioned for Tinsel while I was still a presenter for Village Square and did not get a call back for a year or so. I got a scholarship from African International Film Festival and Ford Foundation to study documentary film making. When I came back, it was like the Heavens opened. I auditioned and got to star in my first big role in Femi Odugbemi’s Gidi Blues. I got a call from Tinsel and I did a few African Magic Original Movies and things began to move for the better. What are some of the notable movies or series you have featured in? For notable, I will say Gidi Blues. That was my first big film that gathered a lot of International recognition as I was nominated in France for that role. Which of them threw you into limelight? And how would you describe such moments? For the limelight, I will say it’s not one particular project that put my face out there. When you are working on a couple of projects, people begin to identify with you. Your face begins to ring a bell. I am grateful for the opportunity to feature in all projects and I will say it’s a combination of all. To what extent can you go acting romantic scene? Kiss, nude or sex? And why? I have always said I will not be in a romantic scene for the sake of it. It needs to be a career advancement role. I need to feel and know why. Who are your role models? My role model has always been Oprah Winfrey. The lives she has touched with her show and the comfort she has given to homes through the media are just worthy of emulation. For me, it’s more than being in the Lime Light. I have certain goals and ambitions – Things I want to do and to become as a media mogul. Do you still model? Well, with the right money (laughs). My answer will be ‘yes, i still model lol!’ If the money is not right, ‘No, I don’t!’ Models and actresses are often accused of living above their means and rely on sugar daddies to maintain their flamboyant lifestyles. Do you agree? For me, it’s whatever rocks your boat! I am not discriminating anyone and I am also not a judge! How do I approach this? I am very sure every sugar daddy worked hard for their money. These sugar daddies made their money from hustle or deals. Why can’t I make my own money? I don’t want to depend on man. Man can only give you crumbs if you are not connected to the ultimate Source. I am trying to work for my money. That’s how I approach life. Don’t give me fish. Teach me how to fish. When you are not modelling or acting, what else do you do? I work in a full time production company and that’s where all my attention is right now. I am currently not modeling or acting. You recently produced a movie, tell us about it. The Eve was my first film production and it was a passion project. I enjoyed every bit of it and learnt so many things. Bringing together cast and crew members that treated the film like their personal project was an absolute delight. I worked with some of the most amazing people ever. You are a star to watch in the series, ‘The Battleground’. What makes your acting style unique? Battleground is such an amazing series with a world class cast and crew. I actually trained as an actor in New York Film Academy. I use the Meissner technique for acting. I embrace who I am. I embrace who the character is. I am the character and the character is me. That’s my approach to interpreting my scripts. You were sad at the outcomes of return on investment of your movie, The Eve. Why did you blame movie distributors for this? Of course, I was sad about the outcome of The Eve. The Eve did not do badly in the cinemas but when you think of how much you put into PR and canvassing, you will realise that you’ve made absolutely nothing. I actually don’t blame the distributors. I strongly believe the sharing pattern can be better. I also believe as a distributor, you should contribute to the Success of a film. If I am making money and you are making money, we will all be happy. It’s not the job of the producers to promote, canvass and advertise.  I also encourage people to stop sharing lies concerning their box-office figures. If your film did not do well, I will rather you shut up than share lies. Many producers blame movie distributors/cinema houses for exploiting producers. Do you share same view? I personally do not approach life thinking someone is exploiting me. I have a decision to avoid exploitation. With The Eve, we made so many mistakes and we are currently re-strategising and rethinking. As a producer, you have the right to avoid exploitation. I personally think the cinemas have found their own business strategy and its working for them. How can we shout exploitation when we continue to make films that go through this same distribution Chanel?  How would you describe your personal style? I like to be as simple as possible. I have an ‘I cannot go and die sense of style.’ (Laughs!) Any plan for Kannywood movies or series? Hmmm!!! I actually have plans for creating Northern content. For acting, I’m open to powerful stories. Tell us about your Russia 2018 experience I had a blast!! Sadly, we did not make it through but I am proud of us. I am a Super Eagles fan for life. Saving up to go watch my favourite team (Chelsea) at the Premier League. Single, married or engaged? Very Single. I am waiting for Ruben Loftus Cheek to come Date and marry me LOL!! I am not joking. If single, do you cherish marriage or you see it as a distraction? Also, what’s your ideal man? I never force anything. Once the time is right, the right man will find me or I will find the right man. I don’t think too much about marriage. I am looking forward to finding my soul mate. Who is your Nollywood crush and why? Not sure I have. I need to think properly and give you an answer next time. Have you been sexually harassed before given a role? I have fortunately not been sexually harassed for a role. Someone tried to dupe me when I first started out but I laughed all through…. People just always want to take advantage one way or the other. Can you describe your most challenging moments in life? And how did you surmount this? I have faced so many challenges in my life. I really can’t point at one as the most challenging. I always believe I will keep facing and overcoming. Any nomination or notable award? Yes, I have been nominated for Award mostly Outside Nigeria. None in Nigeria. I have won the Golden Movie Award for Best Break out Actor and best Supporting Actor. What was your most embarrassing moment on set or in public? If I was really embarrassed, I won’t remember. I actually purposely forget things that I don’t feel good about. Where should we see Hauwa in the next five years? Running a multi-million dollar company that would be impacting on the entertainment industry in Africa. The industry is rife with controversy, how have you managed to steer clear of controversies? I know you might be bored hearing this answer but I am not purposely trying to stay away from Controversies. I am just living my life one day at a time with a vision. Testimony Drops New Single, ‘Gone For Life’ Electrifying and Charismatic Fujipop Gospel Crooner, Salau Aliu Olayiwola, better known as Testimony is dropping a new single titled ‘Gone For Life’ into the music market this month According to Testimony who is the next biggest act to come out of the Believers Loveworld Incorporated better known as Christ Embassy, the single is to assure music lovers that poverty had gone out of their lives once they stick to God. Testimony who is also known as Mr. Jaga has become a fast rising name in the Nigerian Gospel music industry after his explosive tracks like ‘Jehovah’, ‘Lambano’ and ‘Igara’, described the single as an explosive FujiPop song. The Igara crooner who has been pioneering an entirely novel and interesting angle to the Gospel genre known as Fujipop said: “My grandfather inspired my kind of music and I call it Fujipop. My grandfather was an Apala musician. If you listen very well to my music, you will realise it is a blend of Apala and Fuji. “All of my songs are big because they glorify God. I started with ‘David Dance’, then ‘Lambano’ and later ‘Igara’. To be honest, ‘Igara’ ushered an unprecedented move of the spirit. It brought the street to the church and took the church back to the street; so it is from glory to glory. I can tell you that ‘Gone for Life’ is a product of a more matured Mr. Jaga. JAGA which is an acronym for Jesus Associate, God Ambassador (JAGA), is a reflection of the passion the budding star has for winning souls, a passion that birthed his Street Gospel Movement (SGM); a chariot he found to take the good news of God’s kingdom to the streets. According to him, the Street Gospel Movement is all about showing the love of Christ to those in the streets. “We do not have to condemn them in what they do because we did not come with a message of condemnation but that of good news. So they can easily accept Christ. We therefore need to be creative in taking our music to the world.” With his new song “Gone For Life “, Mr. Jaga said he was poised to take something thrilling and scintillating to the streets with his Street Gospel Movement, which has recorded tremendous success. He added: “Taking gospel music to the streets has wowed many people who have no idea that Gospel music can be fun and done in an exciting manner. Thus, many youths have joined us.” Mr Jaga who is also the Leader of The Testifiers Band, which plies its trade at weddings, parties and other ceremonies, also has a clothing line called JAGS Wear, a music outlet for branded speakers-TMJ Audio as well as TMJ Gas, a retail gas outlet. Mr Jaga did not mince words in saying that the strongest influence in his life which brought him into limelight and prominence is Pastor Chris Oyakhilome. Mr Jaga started music in his secondary school days and has had a foray into secular music before becoming a gospel artiste. The Ogun State born artiste assured his n fans that “Gone For Life” is one they will relish in as everyone awaits its release this month.