By Eromosele Abiodun The Apapa area command of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has announced that a total of 343, 471 metric tons of agricultural products, mineral resources and other exportable products with Free on Board (FOB) value of N57 billion were exported out of Nigeria through the Apapa port between January and July 2018. Similarly, the command announced that it generation the sum of N210 billion as revenue within the period under review. Outgoing Controller of the command, Comptroller Jubrin Musa, disclosed this in Lagos, while handing over the mantle of leadership to the newly appointed Controller, Comptroller Abubakar Bashir. Musa said the revenue collected represented a 6.9 per cent increase over the N196.7 billion generated in the corresponding period of 2017, a feat he attributed to the recently launched NICIS 11 platform. According to him, “The improved revenue profile of the command within the last three months attests to the fact that the NCS is at her best season as far as the statutory role of revenue collection is concern. “Through the NICIS 11, revenue leakages and human related errors and other clearing process abuses are reduced to the barest minimum.” He added, “We have put in place different strategies for more efficient and seamless cargo clearance. Such reinvigorated strategies include thorough documentary checks, continuous stakeholders’ engagement for wilful compliance and 100 percent physical examination of cargo.” The customs boss while also appealing for increased level of compliance to extant laws guiding export business, assured that the command would continue to facilitate export trade in line with the federal government effort at diversifying the economy through encouragement of non- oil export. On anti–smuggling activities, the Comptroller said a total of nine seizures comprising of pharmaceuticals, vegetable oil and other controlled goods including 13 containers of tramadol were recorded within the review period. Meanwhile, Comptroller Abubakar Bashir, has officially assumed duty as the new Comptroller in charge of the Apapa command. Comptroller Bashir was until his redeployment to the flagship command, Comptroller Port Harcourt 11 Onne command. Comptroller Musa who has been redeployed to the Human Resource Development unit at the Customs headquarters, while expressing appreciation to officers for helping him achieve success during his stay at the command appealed to them to extend and redouble same support to his successor. In his remarks, Comptroller Bashir solicited for cooperation of officers to enable him succeed in his mandate even as he promised to sustain and improve on the achievements of his predecessor.