A 26-year old undergraduate, Damilola Rachel Ajayi, has emerged the overall winner of the N5million star prize in the just-concluded Skye Bank Plc’s “Ref ‘n’ Win,” promo. The promo was a youth-focused initiative designed to reward Skye Bank’s account holders who were mainly undergraduates across the country. During the course of the campaign, students who referred their friends to open accounts earned commission on accounts opened and qualified for prizes ranging from N25,000, N50,000. They also stood a chance to partake in the grand draw to win star price value of N5million. According to a statement from the bank, Miss Ajayi, a resident of KwaraState, who runs her account with the Skye Bank Unilorin branch, learnt about the promo through the campus Ref n Win promo flyer, and went all out to canvass for account opening with friends, assuring them that they stood a chance to win big in the promo. At the prize and cheque presentation ceremony in Ilorin, the Office Technology and Management (OTM) student of Federal Polytechnic Offa winner, could not hide her joy over the news of her winning; noting that “although it was not easy, but with determination and the help of God I was able to convince most students especially my friends in Unilorin to open an account with Skye bank.” The statement quoted to have explained further, “A call came through from Skye Bank head office in Lagos informing me that I had won a brand new car in the “Ref ‘n’ Win” promo. “On hearing this, I was more than overjoyed to say the least. But you know as a student, I don’t have money to maintain the car, so Skye Bank accepted to convert the car to its cash equivalent and I’m really happy.” On how she was able to convince other students to open account with Skye Bank, the lucky winner who intends to invest the money ‘so that it will keep increasing,‘ disclosed she told her prospects that, “If you open account today, you stand a chance to win.” According to her, “when I spoke to 10 people, I made sure five of them referred at least three other people and I give them my account number to use as referral code.” Damilola showered praises on the bank, saying, “The stress I passed through to emerge winner was not easy but the reward far outweighs it. Truly Skye Bank is a unique bank. They are changing lives. See, my life has been changed. I am now a millionaire,” said she. On his part, the Dean of Student Affairs, Prof. Lanre Tajudeen Ajibade, who represented the Vice Chancellor, University of Ilorin, appreciated Skye Bank for keeping faith with their promise and empowering the winner of the promo. “Although before now, I did not have a business relationship with Skye Bank, but with this gesture from the bank, I will open an account today,” he affirmed.