Access Bank Plc has raised $2.2 million (N800 million) to support vulnerable children during the finale of the annual Access Bank’s UNICEF Charity Shield Polo tournament in partnership with Fifth Chukker held at the prestigious Guards Polo Club, Windsor, United Kingdom. The lender sees the game of Polo as an avenue to deepen its commitment towards impacting the environment and positively affecting the lives of its teeming customers. The event further demonstrated the bank’s commitment to making a difference. The event saw hundreds of game lovers throng the pitch to watch the Nigerian duo, Adamu Atta and Babangida Usman play alongside the number one Polo player in the World, Argentine, Adolfo Cambiasso. The Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi; businesswoman and philanthropist, Bola Shagaya; CEO of Oando Plc, Wale Tinubu; and entrepreneurs, Kola and Tunde Karim, were some of the distinguished guests present to support Access Bank’s cause by purchasing artworks worth $30,000 (N11 million). Another $2.2million (N800 million) was raised in pledges to renovate dilapidated classrooms and provide a better learning environment for underprivileged and displaced children in Kaduna over the next five years. The CEO, Access Bank UK, Jamie Simmonds, was quoted in a statement to have said, “The way we balance our economic, environmental and social impact while continuing to grow our business and enhance our reputation is an area of key importance to us.” On his part, the Group Managing Director of Access Bank Plc, Herbert Wigwe confirmed that the bank’s continued support for the Fifth Chukker UNICEF initiative is predicated on its role as a change agent in Nigeria and Africa, which can help institute socio-economic development through responsible business practice, social initiatives, and environmental consideration. “We will continue to look for ways through which more resources can be pooled towards supporting the children. We are part of the community and as such we support its wellbeing,” he stated.