Ayodeji Ake Three Crowns Milk, one of Nigeria’s leading dairy brands and a flagship product from the stable of FrieslandCampina WAMCO, has raised the stakes in its Mum of the Year (MOTY) campaign for 2018. Flagging off this year’s edition of the competition, Senior Brand Manager of Three Crowns Milk, Mrs. Omolara Banjoko, said three mums would win the grand prize at this year’s edition, instead of just one mother as was the case ab initio. The iconic brand has, since 2015 celebrated the unique role a mother plays in the family, especially by ensuring a healthy nutrition for the family. This is in line with the pay-off line, ‘Healthy Mums, Happy Families’ which it has adopted since its re-launch in 2015 and defines its role to enable mums take extra care of themselves by eating right and keeping fit.
This year’s campaign coincides with the 30th anniversary of the leading brand in the Nigerian market. Explaining the rationale behind the initiative, Senior Brand Manager, Three Crowns Milk, Mrs. Omolara Banjoko, said the Three Crowns Milk ‘Mum of the Year’ campaign is the brand’s special way of rewarding mothers who are the key target consumers for their unalloyed support and patronage. “The mothers are as invaluable to Three Crowns Milk as they are to their families. We like them to always keep fit and feel appreciated. The mothers are our primary target as the key decision makers and most times prioritise themselves last in the pursuit of their families’ happiness and wellbeing. “Hence, the brand places a very high premium in identifying and celebrating them. Participants in the campaign would need to visit http://bit.ly/2O5o0PF for details.” Nigerian celebrities who have been judges at the competition include Dance Queen, Kaffy; Nollywood screen goddess, Chioma Apotha; popular OAP, Matse, Nollywood actresses, Mercy Aigbe-Gentry, Annie Idibia and popular chef, Uzor Orimalade, among others. Three Crowns, the leading low cholesterol milk has for 30 long years consistently delivered good quality milk to and is trusted by families and medical practitioners to help Nigerians stay fit and healthy.