Nume Ekgehe Sterling Bank Plc recently inaugurated a new branch which was the first commercial bank situated in Igbogbo LCDA of Ikorodu Local Government in Lagos. Speaking at the inauguration ceremony, the Chairman of Igbogbo-Bayeiku Local Council Development Area (LCDA) in Igbogbo, Olusesan Daini commended the bank for building a branch in the area. He assured that the bank would have more reasons to invest in the community in the near future given the rapid development taking place in the region. “Igbogbo is the fastest growing community in Ikorodu so there’s no doubt about the level of patronage Sterling Bank will enjoy. “As you have paved the way for commercial banking in the community, we are certain your competitors will follow suit to open their own branches. My advice is to ensure your ATMs are promptly serviced at all times to lay a good foundation for your business dealings with members of the community,” Daini said. Also speaking, Oba Semiudeen Orimadegun Kasali, the Adegboruwa of Igbogbo Kingdom applauded Sterling Bank for building and operating a branch in his community. The royal father called on the people of the community to patronise Sterling Bank, while assuring the bank that the people would do the best they could in terms of support. “We look forward to working with you. We pray that your coming will usher in other commercial activities in Igbogbo. We want to implore you to also look at ways to support the community through your corporate social responsibility,” the Oba said. Commenting on the new branch, the Executive Director, Retail & Consumer Banking, Sterling Bank Mr. Grama Narasimhan said, “Our decision to site a new branch in Igbogbo/Baiyeku Local Council Development Area is in line with the bank’s determination to bring world class banking services closer to the doorsteps of Nigerians. “The new branch will further boost the socio-economic development of the area by assisting SMEs and micro-businesses with soft loans to strengthen their capacity and productivity level, thereby creating job opportunities for the youths of Igbogbo and its environs.” Earlier, in her welcome address, the Regional Business Executive for Sterling Bank in Ikorodu and Beyond, Ms. Olufunke Usalo, thanked the traditional ruler and the people of the community for their support during the period leading to the opening of the branch – the only commercial bank in the community.