From George Okoh In Makurdi Police have said that nine persons were killed in an attack on Tse Ujoh Village in Ikyurqv-Tiev ward of Katsina Ala Local Government Area of Benue State. The State Command spokesman, DSP Moses Yamu, confirmed on Friday that nine people were killed during the attack. “We got information that some militia attacked Tse Ujoh village of Ikyurav-Tiev council ward where nine people were killed”, Yamu said. He said the police were still investigating those behind the killings. Unknown gunmen had turned the Katsina-Ala axis to a hotbed of attacks and killings recently Few weeks ago within the axis, militia stormed the residence of Major General John Malu, younger brother of the former chief of army staff, late General Victor Malu, but were repelled by soldiers attached to him. It was gathered that the militia, in the early hours of Friday invaded the Tse Ujor village where they shot sporadically and killed several people. An eyewitness said that many people were injured and taken to an undisclosed hospital where one other died. “By the time they left, several people were injured, at least twelve bodies were found and taken to hospital morgue”, the eyewitness said. The state governor, Samuel Ortom, who reacted to the attack, also confirmed that nine people were killed. The governor said the latest attack on Tse-Ujoh in Ikyurav-Tiev of Katsina-Ala local government area which left nine persons dead in the early hours of Friday was unacceptable. His Chief Press Secretary, Terver Akase, disclosed that troops had been deployed to the affected area to bring the situation under control. The statement assured the people of Katsina-Ala that steps had been taken to prevent further attacks in the area adding that three persons had been arrested in connection with the attack. The statement further said, ‘Governor Ortom reassured the people of the state that his administration will not allow armed militia to continue to terrorise communities. “He encouraged anyone with information that can lead to the apprehension of the gang members to contact the police, Department of State Service or the military.”