PREMIER LEAGUE Nigerian forward, Victor Moses, was left out of the Chelsea squad that maintained their winning start to the Premier League season with 2-1 victory over Newcastle United in a match featuring three goals in 11 second-half minutes. The winger who quit the national team last week to concentrate fully on his club career has only made one substitute appearance for the Blues under Maurizio Sarri this season. Eden Hazard, on his first start this season for the Blues, netted from the penalty spot in the 76th minute before substitute Joselu levelled with a brilliant header at St James’ Park. But, having been resolute in defence for the majority of the game, Newcastle failed to clear their lines and Marcos Alonso’s shot took a deflection off DeAndre Yedlin. Chelsea dominated the game with 82% possession and Pedro, Cesar Azpilicueta and Alvaro Morata missed chances. Antonio Rudiger rattled the crossbar in the 70th minute but Newcastle contained the pressure until Fabian Schar tripped Alonso in the box. Chelsea’s third win in as many matches moved them level on points with Liverpool and Watford at the top of the table, while Rafael Benitez’s Newcastle have only one point. Benitez was forced to make six changes to the side that drew with Cardiff last weekend, with captain Jamaal Lascelles and midfielder Jonjo Shelvey among those absent through injury. The starting XI, featuring three debutants, held their own in defence for much of the game but never looked a threat up front. Salamon Rondon, making his first start since arriving from West Brom, headed wide in the first half, their only clear chance before Joselu’s equaliser. The German’s goal caused controversy, with Chelsea substitute Olivier Giroud claiming he was elbowed off the ball by Yedlin in the build-up. It did not matter as Yedlin’s own goal sent Newcastle to their second defeat of the season. After a World Cup summer and reports of interest from Real Madrid, Belgium forward Hazard had to settle for two appearances from the bench before this match. He received a less than friendly welcome by the hosts on his return to the starting XI. In the first minute, he was caught on the back of the ankle by the studs of Matt Ritchie, and was then clattered on the right leg by Mohamed Diame. Off the ball Hazard moved gingerly at times, but for the most part he was the driving force for Chelsea, whose dogged and unrelenting attack finally came to fruition in the latter stages. Hazard’s well-taken penalty was his 70th Premier League goal for Chelsea, which puts him behind only Frank Lampard (147) and Didier Drogba (104) in the club record books. Elsewhere yesterday, Aleksandar Mitrovic scored twice as Fulham secured their first victory since returning to the Premier League in an eventful match against Burnley. Jean Michael Seri, signed from Nice in July, gave the hosts the perfect start by firing a wonderful 25-yard strike into the top-right corner of Joe Hart’s goal after just four minutes. But Burnley were level in the 10th minute as Jeff Hendrick converted at the second attempt after good work from Aaron Lennon down the right flank. Also yesterday, Watford manager Javi Gracia said his side has achieved “something massive” after beating Crystal Palace 2-1 to win their opening three games of the season for the first time in their top-flight history. The Hornets maintained their perfect start in the Premier League to move behind Liverpool and level with Chelsea on nine points at the top of the table. Roberto Pereyra scored his third goal in as many games with an exquisite curling effort, before Jose Holebas added a seemingly unintentional second from outside the area in a resurgent second-half display.