By Chineme Okafor in Abuja Managing Director of Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC) and Country Chair of Shell Companies in Nigeria, Mr. Osagie Okunbor has said that the company’s future investments in Nigeria’s oil and gas sector would be determined by the final outcomes on the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB). Okunbor, who stated this in an interview THISDAY in Abuja monitored from the July 2018 edition of the KPMG Nigeria CEO Outlook, noted that right fiscal frameworks were essential to attract huge investments in the oil industry, and warned that Nigeria was at risk of losing investment capital to other competing jurisdictions if it failed to get it right with the PIBs. The Shell Country Chair said the passage of the PIBs would provide a good incentive for investments to flow into Nigeria’s oil and gas sector, adding that Shell is closely monitoring ongoing legislative proceedings on the four bills created from the separation of the omnibus PIB, and would make big oil and gas investment bets based on their final outcomes. The PIBs comprise the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB) – already legislated on by the National Assembly and currently on the table of President Muhammadu Buhari for assent; Petroleum Industry Fiscal Bill (PIFB); Petroleum Industry Administration Bill (PIAB); and Petroleum Industry Host Community Bill (PIHCB). Okunbor noted: “I am pretty confident that if we can sustain this momentum, we will see investments flow into this sector. The multiplier effect when this happens will be tremendous. As you may have heard the Honourable Minister of State for Petroleum Resources often say, ‘we need to diversify our economy’, but we need oil to get out of oil. “So, investments in this sector will be very important. A number of critical enablers are required and will need to be addressed to sustain the forward momentum in the sector. I will say, first and foremost, we require the right fiscal environment. The ongoing discussions in the National Assembly on the four bills that make up what used to be the PIB, including the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill which has been harmonised and passed, is a step in the right direction.” He further added: “We are paying very close attention to the eventual outcomes of these bills because ultimately, we need the right legal and fiscal frameworks to enable companies like us to make some big bets. If we don’t get this right, the country is at risk of losing investment capital to other competing jurisdictions. “We need to just ensure that the security situation, especially in the Niger Delta, is effectively managed. A resurgence of violence in the region in 2016 severely impacted oil production negatively. It is therefore very important for the industry to work with the government to provide the safe environment for oil and gas assets and for production. “The contracting cycle is the third major enabler that needs to be addressed. OPTS (Oil Producers Trading Section) has looked at contracting cycles across jurisdictions and Nigeria is an outlier because of our lengthy contract cycle. We need to explore avenues to shorten the length and examine contract thresholds, which is a significant part of the JVs and contracting cycles.” He noted his optimism with developments in the industry, stating: “Historically, we struggled with all the parties, particularly the NNPC, meeting cash flow obligations. With the very far-reaching steps that were taken last year to reach an arrangement to manage the whole JV funding structure, we have seen far more stability in NNPC meeting its obligations. “We still have a few areas to cover, in particular 2016 arrears, but even that is good progress. This has been running for a year, so we can say there is some stability and we can seriously consider investments. Following a meeting we held recently with Mr. President in London, our global CEO said that if we get all the conditions right, together with our partners, we will be able to make significant investments in the sector. That is a major indicator of what we are able to do, but it is underpinned by a lot more confidence in the ability of the country to meet its obligations.” 