By David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka The National Leader of the Progressive Peoples Alliance (PPA), Mr. Godwin Ezeemo, has said that the serial killings in some parts of the country and the unfair treatment of people of all zones were part of the reason the party was joining forces with other parties in the new Coalition of United People Party (CUPP) to fight the reelection project of President Muhammadu Buhari. The leader of the party gave other reasons it was opposed to Buhari as the use of security agencies against political opponents. Ezeemo, who contested the November18, 2017 governorship election in Anambra State under the PPA platform, disclosed this to journalists in his country home, Umuchu, Aguata Local Government Area of Anambra State. According to him, “I am very displeased with the present administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. With incessant killings in some part of the country, kidnapping on our highways, insult on our national lawmakers by the operative of the DSS, intimidation and harassment of political oppositions, impunity has become the order of the day. “In fact, the political tension in the country will reach the stage when the slogan and definition of democracy as the government of the people, by the people and for the people will no longer function. “This is all because of the fears instituted by the present APC Government.” Ezeemo, who called on all eligible voters for the forthcoming 2019 general elections to make use of their PVCs wisely for the interest of Nigeria democracy, advised other Coalition members to be credible in selection of presidential candidate, because whoever will unseat the incumbent President, must be a person that is capable in all ramifications. He said such a person must be acceptable by all Nigerians, also all parties to the alliance. He also called for support for any candidate that emerges. He said with the promises of APC in 2015, when they came into power to tackle corruption, revamp the economy and address security challenges and restructure the nation, none has been realised. Thirty-nine political parties had met in Abuja last month, where they signed a Memorandum of Understanding to field a single presidential candidate in 2019, with an agreement to work together in all elections.