Demola Ojo Fifteen travel and hospitality ooutfits from Dubai are confirmed for the Akwaaba African Travel Market slated for early next month in Lagos. The leading tourism destination in the Middle East sees Nigeria as a priority market and has indicated their intention to lure as many Nigerians as possible to Dubai’s famed tourism offerings by repeated participation at West Africa’s leading tourism exhibition. About 300,000 Nigerians pass through Dubai every year. Led by the official trade and marketing department of the Middle Eastern Emirate, the 15 companies attending Akwaaba for this year include; Jumeirah, Red Apple, Khimji, Sun and Sand and Alpha Tours. Rayna Tourism, Arabian Adventures and the Ritz Carton Dubai are also billed to exhibit, as well as the Dubai Health Authority. Jumeirah operates two extraordinary hotels brands offering exceptional guests experiences across the world. Jumeirah Hotels & Resorts are regarded as among the most luxurious and innovative in the world, and have won numerous international travel and tourism awards including 76 prestigious accolades in 2017. In 2018 Jumeirah launched a second brand, Zabeel House by Jumeirah, created in response to the continuing and growing travel trend for exploration and enrichment through travel experiences. The launch of the new casual-upscale Zabeel House by Jumeirah brand was a significant milestone for Jumeirah in achieving strategic expansion, and provides an opportunity for Jumeirah to access new localities and destinations. Some Jumeirah properties include, Jumeirah Beach Hotel Dubai, Jumeirah Emirates Towers Hotel Dubai, Madinat Jumeirah – the Arabian Resort in Dubai which includes Al Qasr Hotel, Dar Al Mashaf Hotel, Mina A’Salam Hotel and Jumeirah Al Naseem, Jumeirah Creekside Hotel Dubai, Jumeirah Zabeel Saray Dubai among others. This comes as Gambia Tourism Board seeks to renew its presence in Nigeria. As part of latest efforts to increase awareness for The Gambia as an all year tourism destination for discerning Nigerian visitors and prospective investors, the Gambia Tourism Board has announced its participation at the 14th Akwaaba which will be held September 9 to11. It will be a return after three years of absence from the annual trade show in Nigeria. The Gambia’s participation includes a 20-man delegation to be led by the Director General Gambia Tourism Board. Earlier this year, the Akwaaba travel market team had organised the ‘Banjul Bantaba’ event with a familiarization trip to the Gambia and a high powered B2b session which showed Nigerians the amazing potentials of the West African country. Gambia is set for a Jollof rice contest on the first day of the expo before Day 2 when the Gambia Day proper will hold. The Gambia Tourism Board wants vto take advantage of increased access to the ‘Smiling Coast’ offered by Asky and Air Peace.