 By Deji Elumoye in Abuja The Deputy Senate President, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, has stated that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC’s interrogation of him is yet to be concluded. Ekweremadu who made this known in a statement issued on his behalf in Abuja on Friday by his Media Aide, Uche Anichukwu, emphasised that he had honoured EFCC’s invitation twice this week. Ekweremadu, according to the statement, was at the EFCC Abuja headquarters on Tuesday and Wednesday to honour the earlier invitation extended to him by the anti-graft body last week. It added that the Deputy Senate President who was not feeling well while at EFCC headquarters on Wednesday  will return to  EFCC office at a later date. “Senator Ekweremadu  reported at the EFCC on Wednesday, August 1, 2018, at 10am as scheduled, but informed them that he was not feeling well, a fact the EFCC doctor confirmed. He was then allowed to leave to see his doctor and it was agreed that a new date would be fixed for continuation of the interview”. The statement recalled that operatives of the EFCC and men of the Nigeria Police laid siege to Ekweremadu’s residence at about 6am on Tuesday, July 24, 2018,  requesting him to report at its headquarters at 10am the same Tuesday while no letter of invitation was delivered to him until around 9am of that day. “Since the siege would not allow him to honour the belated “invitation” the same day, he, as a law-abiding citizen, wrote to the EFCC to request for another date, hence the rescheduled appointment of Tuesday, July 31, 2018. According to the statement, Senator Ekweremadu honoured the 10am appointment on the fixed date and left in the evening of the same day when he was granted bail on self-recognizance with an understanding that he would report at the EFCC office at 10am the next day for a continuation of the interview. “So, there was no interrogation whatsoever on Wednesday, let alone presentation of so-called additional “facts” that purportedly triggered his blood pressure. Likewise, there were no new “facts” presented to him the previous day, Tuesday, July 31, beside those concocted by the dismissed Chief Judge of Enugu State, Innocent Umezulike, and his cohorts in their petition”, the statement added. 