By Ibrahim Shuaibu in Kano The 73 Battalion of the Nigerian Army, Janguza Barracks in Kano has expressed its preparedness for rapid action in disaster management. Speaking during a visit by the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen. Abayomi Gabriel Olanisakin, and Director General of National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Mr. Mustapha Maihaja, to assess its readiness in disaster management Wednesday, the Commanding Officer of the battalion, Lieutenant Colonel Isidore Ominaso Amah, said the 73 Battalion remains poised for active participation in disaster, adding that the battalion covers Jigawa State and 14 local government areas of Kano State. Amah pointed out that “the battalion in conjunction with FRSC, police and hospital are working closely towards achieving effective control of disasters”. He said his battalion had mapped out modern strategic plans of managing disaster despite the challenges they were facing and reiterated the commitment of his battalion in prompt response to disasters whenever the need arises. On the coming 2019 general election, the commanding officer also revealed that: “As the 2019 general election is fast approaching, it may likely witness destruction of lives and properties that may force some civilians to take refuge in Janguza Barracks.” Amah, therefore assured the CDS that the 73 Battalion have a prominent role to play and have mapped out plans of evacuation, reception and protection of displaced persons who usually thronged to barrack during crises. Speaking also, the Director General of NEMA, Maihaja, re-affirmed the commitment of his agency in ensuring the establishment of functional disaster rescue units aimed at effecting a prompt response to disaster management nationwide. Maihaja, who was represented by the Director Research and Rescue of the agency, Air Commodore Akugbe Iyamil, said the purpose of the visit was to assess the readiness of the battalion in responding to emergency and disaster management. He noted that NEMA had mapped out a coherent strategic plan on how to manage disasters in all parts of the country and also commended the efforts of the 73 Battalion of the Nigerian Army in putting a befitting plan on how to manage disasters in their units. In his remarks, the CDS Olanisakin represented by Major General Habila Vintenba, said all necessary measures have been put in place in ensuring harmonious working relationships between all security agencies in Kano State and the country at large.