GLOBAL SOCCER\\OTHER SPORTS Over the years, SuperSport has cemented their place as the hub for the best of football from around the world and with the premier league returning this weekend, General Manager Sales and Marketing, MultiChoice Nigeria, Martin Mabutho, gives an insight into what to expect The new football season is here again and customers are expecting so much from you. Is there anything the business is planning to do differently in terms of sports offers? We are happy when we put smiles on our customers’ faces by bringing the best of world sports through our SuperSport channels. This year is no different as we present; the Premier League, UEFA Champions League, La Liga, Serie A, Super Cup and Super Spanish Cup. And of course, we are proud and excited to be the sole broadcaster of the new UEFA Nations League. Why doesn’t SuperSport have rights to the Community Shield and FA Cup this season? The elephant in the room…we were outbid for the Community Shield and FA Cup. Another provider offered a lot more than we did, and they got it. I am not sure why they did not show it though.  What should we look forward to as the new football season kicks off this week? Our priority is to deliver the best sporting content and reaffirm our commitment to delivering world-class sporting action. To usher in the new football season this year, we will deliver an unmatched viewing experience. Customers can look forward to the best expert analysis of football legends, live performances, celebrity experiences, music and more.  Last year was epic as you facilitated the parade of the English Premiership Cup in Nigeria.  Are customers expecting the same treatment? Yes, it was indeed a great year for football and the PL trophy tour was the proverbial icing on the cake.  All this we did with our customers in mind. We thought that with the English Premier League being the most anticipated league in the world. However, I cannot confirm at the moment if the trophy will make a return this year, but let’s watch this space for perhaps more thrilling news in the next few months.  How many matches will be available to DStv and GOtv subscribers this season? SuperSport will showcase all 1,140 matches of the new football season: 380 Premier League matches, 380 Serie A matches and 380 La Liga games with most of the matches from each league broadcast Live and in HD on SuperSport.  There is usually a football rush offer to celebrate the football season. Is there a discount on Explora and other devices? We always run promos during this period, and as is the norm, we welcome the new football season with open arms by dishing out some great offers. The DStv HD decoder, which includes a dish kit plus one-month subscription on Compact package now goes for N11,900 from the normal N18,500. In addition, the GOtv decoder, which comes with the antenna and one-month on GOtv MAX is available for N6,900 rather than the normal rate of N7,900. What’s the deal with Iwobi? Alex, he is the latest addition to our family. We have been working on an awesome campaign that we will roll out soon. He is a gifted player and embodies the brand values of our Compact bouquet.