Emmanuella Igwe The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki has reiterated his administration’s commitment to provide more support for victims of terrorism who reside in the camps of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the state. Obaseki made the pledge in commemoration of the International Day of Remembrance of and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism held yearly by the United Nations (UN) and member states across the globe. “While the federal government continues to intensify efforts to subdue terrorists in the North East and other parts of Nigeria, Edo State will not relent in ensuring that Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) residing in camps in the state are provided with adequate structures to make their stay comfortable. The IDPs would be further assisted in recovering from the trauma of terrorism, as it will facilitate their rehabilitation and integration into society,” the governor explained. The governor said more could still be achieved if well-meaning, public-spirited individuals, Civil Society Organisations (CSOs), international donor agencies, among others, work closely with governments in scaling up assistance to victims of terrorism. Obaseki noted that the state government would continue to coordinate efforts to assist IDPs in the state. According to the UN, “While more countries are affected by terrorism today, the number of victims has largely been concentrated in a small number of member states. In 2017 alone, nearly three-quarters of all deaths caused by terrorism were in just five countries: Afghanistan, Iraq, Nigeria, Somalia and Syria. “Few members states have the resources or the capacity to fulfil the medium and long-term needs required for victims to fully recover, rehabilitate and integrate back into society. Victims can only recover and cope with their trauma through long-term multi-dimensional support, including physical, psychological, social and financial, in order to heal and live with dignity.” The global body added, “The primary responsibility to support victims of terrorism and uphold their rights rests with member states. The United Nations has an important role in supporting member states to implement Pillar I and IV of the UN Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy through standing in solidarity and providing support to victims, capacity building assistance, establishing networks of, and offering support to, civil society organisations, particularly victims of terrorism associations, and encouraging member states to promote, protect and respect the rights of victims.”