Moms at War, a production by Inkblot, Dioni Visions and Film One, is hitting cinemas across Nigeria on Friday, August 17. Moms at War tells the story of Olaide and Ebubechukwu, two mothers, who would do anything for their children. Omoni Oboli stars as Ebubechukwu, a posh career woman who was born with a silver spoon in her mouth and expects her only daughter to follow in her footsteps. Funke Akindele stars as Olaide, a self-made woman who built herself up from nothing to raise her son and give him the life she did not have. The dramedy soars as a slam bang tale of friendship and motherhood which is stylish, subversive and strikingly funny. It is written by Naz Onuzo known for films such as Wedding Party 2, New Money and My Wife and I and directed by Omoni Oboli, the triple threat box office Queen responsible for such hits as Okafor’s Law and the Wives on Strike films. With their children competing for a place in a prestigious scholars programme, everything starts to derail as the mothers go head to head to ensure that their own child wins. The production, starring Funke Akindele, Omoni Oboli, Yul Edochie, Eucharia Anumobi and Yul Edochie, follows closely on the heels of such box office hits as New Money, Wedding Party 2, and Wives on Strike 2.
“Having had many successful collaboarations with Inkblot we were pleased to continue the partnership on Moms at War,” enthused Moses Babatope, CEO of Film One. “We have worked with Dioni Visions and Omoni Oboli for many years and are happy to announce our first collaboration with her. Moms at War is the perfect film for women and everyone else as it cloaks in comedy the wars our mothers wittingly and unwittingly fight for us, everyday.” Inkblot Productions is a Lagos-based production company founded with the goal of creating high quality, commercially viable films and television shows for Nigerian and international audiences. Since inception in 2011, Inkblot has been one of the fasted growing production companies in Nigeria, releasing crowd-pleasing hits such as The Wedding Party Series, My Wife and I, New Money, The Arbitration, Out of Luck and The Department.