Mary Nnah The Lagos State Government has commended Fidson Healthcare Plc for its relentless commitment to the academic development of Nigerian children through its Astymin brand annual flagship programme, Astymin Brilliance Reward. Speaking at the 9th edition of the Astymin Children Academic Reward Programme, “Astymin Brilliance Reward”, held recently in Lagos, the Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Dr. Idiat Oluranti Adebule said Astymin’s commitment and contribution to the development of education and academic performance of the Nigerian child was commendable, as Fidson and her Astymin brand are essentially investing in the future of the nation through the provision of educational materials to the leaders of tomorrow. Adebule, who was represented by the Director, Administration and Human Resource, Lagos State Ministry of Education, Mrs. Folashade Lediju, said Fidson’s consistency in supporting children’s educational development in the past nine years is commendable. She said, “It is good to know that this beautiful programme has been on for the past nine years. We want to encourage Fidson to continue to soar higher and higher. “We must also commend its focus on primary education, which is indeed the foundation for educational development. We all know that once the foundation is solid, definitely, success is assured.” Lediju also noted that ASTYMIN as a food supplement is very important for every growing child, adding that “once the children are healthy, they will be able to channel their energy into developing themselves, their education will not be a problem because only a healthy and sound mind will be able to access education and develop with it.” Also speaking, Director, Co-Curricular Department, State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), Mr. Hakeem Olalekan expressed gratitude for the reward programme. “On behalf of the chairman of the board, Dr. Ganiyu Oluremi Shopeyin, we are very grateful to Astymin for this brilliance reward. This is an encouragement to both the pupils, teachers as well as their parents who put in so much effort to ensure their kids work hard and perform excellently in their academics”, he said. The Astymin Brilliance Reward, which berthed in 2010, is the brand’s biggest and most prestigious event. It is aimed at developing mental and academic performance, while rewarding hard work and academic excellence amongst primary school pupils, through special acknowledgment and provision of educational materials.