Bassey Inyang in Calabar A governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressive Congress in Cross River State, Mr. Venatius Ikem, has accused the state governor, Professor Ben Ayade, of planning to arrest him over allegation that he sponsored thugs to disrupt the Obudu State Constituency by-election held on August 11. Ikem stated this in reaction to an allegation leveled against him by the state government that he imported thugs into Obudu during the by-election. The Attorney General of the State, Mr. Joe Abang, and the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mrs. Rosemary Archibong, had addressed a “World Press Conference” at the Exco chambers, Governor’s Office last week, alleging that Ikem and another APC governorship aspirant imported thugs to disrupt the by-election in Obudu. Abang had stated categorically that the alleged sponsors of thugs would be arrested and tried no matter how highly placed they were. Reacting to the allegation, Ikem joined issues with the state government, saying it’s trumped-up and designed to give credence to the plot by Ayade to get him arrested. He said the latest round of witch-hunt against him was an attempt by the governor to get him incarcerated having failed in an earlier attempt to arrest him before the by-election. A press statement signed by Ikem and made available to THISDAY in Calabar on Friday read in part: “My attention has been drawn to a press statement issued by some members of the Cross River State Exco accusing me and Hon Paul Adah of importing thugs to disrupt and unleash violence during the just concluded by-election in Obudu. Nothing could be farther from the truth than this. “At all material times, I did not and will never get involved in any violent or cult activities for the purpose of winning elections. I remain fully committed to the ideals of democracy, freedom of expression and the right to freedom of association. “The action of the State Exco by addressing a press conference was designed simply to distort the facts of the just concluded by-election and give credence to the desperate and unfortunate plot by the state governor to have me arrested at all cost and for no just cause. “It is public knowledge that the government of Sen. Ayade during the week of the by-election made several efforts to obtain a warrant for my arrest without success. Two ex parte applications, made to a magistrate court by the State Attorney General within one week, were all rejected. An application/request for my arrest made to the Commissioner of Police Cross River State during the period was equally turned down.” Continuing Ikem said: “the current accusation leveled against my person by some members of the State Exco, led by the Attorney General and the Commissioner for Information, through their so-called world press conference, is simply part of the desperate attempts by the state government to find a reason and a justification for my arrest. The Exco members are simply doing the bidding of their master the governor… “It is on record that several attempts have been made on my life since the PDP primaries in 2014 and the period following my defection to the APC and my declaration to vie for the governorship of the state. In fact, my declaration at the ward and local government were disrupted by thugs ostensibly sponsored by the state government. Unfortunately, some of the main actors fingered in the various attacks on my person and activities have since been given state government appointments.” Giving account of what transpired before and during the by-election, he said that the APC candidate, Mr. Adah Ishamali was forced to abandon his campaign following violent attacks by thugs suspected to be state sponsored. “His (Mr. Ishamali) campaign trail was attacked variously and homes of his main supporters, including my humble self, attacked and vandalised with many people shot and injured. All these were reported at the Police headquarters in Abuja when the local police authorities could not even as much as incident our complaints on the unwarranted violence unleashed on us. The by-election in Obudu was characterised by violence, intimidation, ballot box snatching, thumb printing, etc as desperate political appointees from Obudu, who could not win the support of the people, resorted to these tactics to deliver the governor’s candidate as a cover up for their rejection by the people. “This is the background to the by-election of August 11, 2018 in Obudu and the desperate attempts by the state government to hound all opposition elements and cow them to submission, especially in the build up to 2019 general elections”, he said. This is an e-mail from THISDAY Newspapers Limited, publishers of THISDAY title newspapers and magazines. Its contents are confidential to the intended recipient. If you are not the intended recipient, be advised that you have received this e-mail in error and that any use, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of this e-mail is strictly prohibited and may not be disclosed to or used by anyone other than its intended recipient, nor may it be copied in any way. If received in error please email a reply to the sender, then delete it from your system. Although this e-mail has been scanned for viruses, THISDAY Newspapers Limited shall not accept any responsibility for viruses; you are therefore advised to scan every attachment.