From George Okoh In Makurdi The Scout Association of Nigeria has promised to create scout groups in all the Internally Displaced People’s (IDP) camps in Benue State in order to assist the deplorable conditions of victims of recent herdsmen attack on Benue communities. The group led by its Chief Scout, Very Reverend Fr. Mathias Opara, chief commissioner, national officers and state commissioners across the country, recently in Makurdi while on a sympathy visit to the Governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom, disclosed that 500 youths in the camps will be recruited and taught scouting skills of adventure, traffic control, internal security, first aid, camp cooking and handicrafts. According to the chief scout, “Irked by the plight of children and youths, which was caused by the herdsmen attacks, the association, a pro-children/young people association were at the IDP camps. “We went there to donate relief materials and create scout groups in all the IDP camps so as to introduce the children into scouting skills of adventure, traffic control, internal security, first aid, camp cooking and handicrafts. “So far, about 500 children have been recruited and training has since commenced as well.
He said the Scouts of Nigeria intends to kit all IDPs, who are now scouts with modern scouting uniforms and kits free of charge. In her remark, Barrister Aisha Wakil, prominent for her role in the negotiations for the safe return of the Chibok and Dapchi girls between the Federal Government and the Boko Haram insurgents, expressed her shock at the high level of humanitarian crisis in the state. She promised that she would with other notable Nigerians see to the end of the protracted killings of the people of Benue. The scouts at the occasion invested the Benue State Council President, who is the Chief Judge of Benue State, Justice Adam Unum and Governor Ortom as state patrons while the wife of the Governor, Mrs Eunice Ortom, as state patroness. It also commended the Benue State Governor for the choice of toeing the path of peace, rather than returning violence for violence in the crises between herdsmen and farmers in the state.
The association acknowledged Ortom’s ranching policy, which is aimed at bringing lasting peace between the farmers and herdsmen. They also sought the permission of the World Organization of Scout Movement (WOSM) for the international scout award of messenger of peace on the governor for his peace efforts’. In their remarks, the governor of Benue state and the state Chief Judge pledged their commitment to the laws and promises of the scouts bordering on duty to God and country.