By Segun James Following a petition by a Warri based law firm to the National Assembly alleging fraud in the disbursement of funds to beneficiaries of the amnesty programme of the federal government by the Amnesty office, the ex-agitators named in the petition have disowned it. The law firm had on behalf of some persons acting under the aegis of the Niger Delta Ex-agitators Forum (NDEF) petitioned the National Assembly, alleging refusal of the Amnesty Office to pay monthly stipends and diversion of funds meant for training and empowerment of ex-agitators. The petitioners had attached a list of 61 persons said to be victims of the alleged fraud. But in a swift reaction, the Amnesty Office has denied the allegation, saying that contrary to the allegations, there was no fraud as records at the Amnesty Office indicated that all the 60 alleged beneficiaries had not been receiving stipends since the inception of the programme in 2009. Following the petition, a copy of which was addressed to the Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta and Coordinator, Presidential Amnesty Programme, Prof. Charles Dokubo, he promptly directed an investigation into the allegations. Investigation by officials of the Amnesty Office soon found that some of those listed in the petition denied knowledge of it. According to Mr. Murphy Ganagana, the Media Assistant to the Amnesty boss, “among them is Amatelemowei, an amnesty beneficiary whose name is number one on the list alleged to have been denied his financial entitlements and enlistment on a training programme.” Ganagana stressed that checks at the Amnesty Office on the list of 61 persons attached to the petition indicated that it comprised 40 beneficiaries enlisted into the Amnesty Programme under Phase One, 20 beneficiaries under Phase Two, and a person from Akwa Ibom State not enlisted in the Presidential Amnesty Programme. Out of the 60 persons on the list, which were verified as beneficiaries of the Amnesty Programme, 33 had already been trained in various areas awaiting empowerment, while the rest are on the queue to undergo training soon. “Findings revealed that while all beneficiaries enlisted in the Amnesty Programme were expected to fully partake in the Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration (DDR) processes, the 60 beneficiaries listed in the petition did not partake in the Federal Government of Nigeria Disarmament Exercises conducted and supervised by the Military Joint Task Force (JTF) in 2009, 2011 and 2012.” He said that contrary to allegations of misappropriation of funds by officials of the Amnesty Office and denial of the N65,000 monthly stipends, records at the Amnesty Office indicated that all the 60 beneficiaries had not been receiving stipends since the inception of the programme in 2009. “But records at the Amnesty Office indicated that from the inception of the Presidential Amnesty Programme, payment of the N65,000 monthly stipends to beneficiaries is strictly based on participation in the Disarmament process. Those involved only in the Demobilization and Reintegration processes are not entitled to payment of the monthly stipends.” Contacted on the development, some of the 60 persons listed on the petition denied involvement in the allegations by the purported group, describing it as the handiwork of some unscrupulous individuals with sinister motive. Among those on the list who disowned the petition, are Amatelemowei, Otutufegha Mike Waibode and Simeon Emmanuel, all of whom said they had completed their training programmes and were awaiting empowerment. Confirming that he had not been paid stipend since the inception of the programme in 2009, Amatelemowei, a beneficiary under Phase One, disclosed that he did not partake in the disarmament exercise due to ill-health, and therefore, never bothered over the none receipt of monthly stipends till date. He said having completed training in a trade area; his prayer is to be empowered soon. Ganagana, therefore, dismissed the allegations in the petition as laughable, saying that it was unthinkable for someone of Prof. Dokubo’s pedigree to be accused of diversion of monthly stipends for beneficiaries of Amnesty Programme or refusal to enlist them on training. He said, “While I can neither deny nor confirm that some unwholesome practices might have occurred in the past at the Amnesty Office, it is pertinent to note that all the issues raised in the petition had been there since 2009 when the Amnesty Programme started. If successive managers of the programme were not able to address some of the complaints of the 60 beneficiaries listed in the petition due to the fact that the allegations were acts of commission or omission by the beneficiaries, you cannot now turn around and blame Prof. Dokubo who assumed duties barely four months ago. “Let me emphasize that since Prof. Charles Dokubo assumed office in March 2018, no beneficiary of the Amnesty Programme entitled to payment of monthly stipends has been denied his/her financial entitlement. In fact, he has ensured consistent and prompt payment of stipends up to date. “Also, there is no issue of replacement of names of beneficiaries under Dokubo’s watch. Even in a situation where a bona fide beneficiary requests for a change of name from what is termed Bush-name to his/her real name, it will only be effected if the relevant camp leader confirms the applicant’s identity to the Amnesty Office in writing, supported by legal identification documents confirming the identity of the applicant and a sworn affidavit for change of name.” On the issue of inclusion of beneficiaries in the Amnesty Programme, he said that the Office of the Special Adviser to the President and Coordinator, Amnesty Programme lacks the powers to add not even a single person to the 30,000 beneficiaries already captured in the programme, as that is the prerogative of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “Prof. Charles Dokubo has zero tolerance for corruption and has initiated remarkable reforms in the Presidential Amnesty Programme within his short period in office. His efforts aimed at deepening peace in the Niger Delta region is yielding positive results, which have been applauded by critical stakeholders including Niger Delta leaders, traditional rulers and the leadership of ex-agitators. Concocted petitions and blackmail will not distract him from repositioning the Amnesty Programme towards achieving its original mandate,” Ganagana stated. 