Gboyega Akinsanmi Gombe State Governor, Dr. Ibrahim Dankwambo saturday declared intention to contest presidential race on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), making him the fifth aspirants the indicated interest in the party nomination. Dankwambo, a former Accountant-General of the Federation, noted that the people from the North-east geo-political zone should not lobby to ascend to the highest political office in the country. He formally declared his intention in a tweet yesterday, noting that he would be contesting for the highest seat on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party. Before he tweeted yesterday, Dankwambo had addressed a of the delegates of the party from the North-east geopolitical zone, canvassing for their support ahead of the party’s presidential primary election. The governor, who addressed the meeting at the new Banquet Hall of the State House, Gombe, noted that consultation “is ongoing on the need for the party to pick its candidate from the zone.” He is the fifth aspirant to announce his candidacy in the PDP. Others are former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, former Kaduna State Governor, Sen. Ahmed Makarfi, former Jigawa State Governor, Alhaji Sule Lamido, former Sokoto State Governor, Alhaji Attahiru Bafarawa and former Jigawa State Governor, Alhaji Tanimu Turaki.
Other party stalwarts, who may declare to contest the presidential race, are Sen. Rabiu Kwankwaso, Sen. Bukola Saraki and Sokoto State Governor, Alhaji Aminu Tambuwal. At the meeting yesterday, Dankwambo canvassed for their support ahead of the party’s presidential primary election, though acknowledged that he was still consulting across the federation on the need for the party to pick its candidate from the zone. He said: “We have been making consultations and that consultations are ongoing. We felt this time around, our zone should be giving opportunity to conduct and preside over the affairs of the country. “We have send delegations to various zones so that they can have the taste of the North-east this time. On this note, I think all of us in this room are on the same page. Do we continue to lobby that North East should produce the next president of this country?