By Deji Elumoye and Onyebuchi Ezigbo in Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has accused the federal government and the All Progressives Congress (APC) of shopping for a “fraudulent” interim court order to declare vacant the seat of the President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, following his defection from the APC to the PDP. But in a swift reaction, the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed described the allegations by the PDP as reckless and desperate, adding that they lack proof. In a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, PDP said that credible information at its disposal showed that some cabals in the Presidency and APC had perfected the said plan, with the sole aim of securing a fraudulent injunction to force him out of office pending the determination of a substantive suit. The PDP said further intelligence available to it shows that they intend to arraign and detain the Deputy Senate President, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, on trumped up charges and ensure he is not granted bail so as to keep him out of circulation while their men would move in to effect an illegal leadership change in the Senate. “While we trust that the Chief Justice of Nigeria will protect the sanctity of our judiciary especially at this trying time in our national history, we call on the institution of the judiciary at all levels to immune itself from being used by enemies of our democracy as no house falls leaving its roof standing. “This desperation by despotic forces to forcefully and illegally take control of the Senate, the highest symbol of our Democratic Order, is nothing short of “civilianised coup” which must be resisted by all”, the statement added. The PDP stated that the judiciary must ensure that it is not intimidated or ensnared to be party to a desperate bid to destabilise our nation. “The PDP holds that this newest devilish plot to destabilise our democracy lays credence to our earlier stand that President Buhari’s supposed London vacation is a ploy to absolve himself of responsibility for the political terror they have plotted to unleash on the opposition, especially the National Assembly. “Although they denied it as usual, Nigerians can bear witness to the fact that there is nothing the APC government denied that it did not eventually execute. “Indeed, there has never been any impunity they executed that they did not deny,” the party said. The PDP also described the recent rascally attempt to hold Saraki and Ekweremadu hostage in their homes on 24th July 2018 as well as the terrorisation of the Benue State House of Assembly after Governor Samuel Ortom’s defection as a sad testimony. “We therefore call on Nigerians and the international community to be on the alert as the conspirators plan to commence the execution of this evil plot from Tuesday next week. ” The PDP cautions the APC and others in this evil ring to note that they are now running on a collision course with Nigerians as the citizens will definitely not fold their hands and watch them destroy our hard earned democracy and foist a fascism on our dear nation,” it stressed. Reacting to the statement by the PDP, the Information Minister said the party was constantly making allegations without proof and urged Nigerians to disregard this current one too. Mohammed said: “Few days back, the PDP claimed that there were plans to invade the Senate and sack Saraki. Today, they said we are planning to use the court to sack Saraki. Nigerians are tired of all these false allegations. The PDP is reckless and desperate. They are afraid of their own shadows. “They are so troubled and have gone out of ideas and make allegations without proofs. Dragging the Judiciary into this is very unfortunate. This is a government that believes in the rule of law. These constant falsehoods are a threat to the peace and security of this country.”  Ekweremadu: I’ll Return to EFCC for Further Interrogation  Meanwhile, Ekweremadu yesterday stated that his interrogation by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) was yet to be concluded. The Deputy Senate President who made this known in a statement issued on his behalf in Abuja by his Media Aide, Uche Anichukwu, emphasised that he had honoured EFCC’s invitation twice this week. Ekweremadu, according to the statement, was at the EFCC Abuja headquarters on Tuesday and Wednesday to honour the earlier invitation extended to him by the anti-graft body last week. It added that the Deputy Senate President who was not feeling well while at the EFCC headquarters on Wednesday will return to the EFCC office at a later date. “Senator Ekweremadu reported at the EFCC on Wednesday, August 1, 2018, at 10am as scheduled, but informed them that he was not feeling well, a fact the EFCC doctor confirmed. He was then allowed to leave to see his doctor and it was agreed that a new date would be fixed for continuation of the interview”, the statement noted. The statement recalled that operatives of the EFCC and men of the Nigeria Police laid siege to Ekweremadu’s residence at about 6am on Tuesday, July 24, 2018, requesting him to report at its headquarters at 10am the same Tuesday while no letter of invitation was delivered to him until around 9am of that day. “Since the siege would not allow him to honour the belated invitation the same day, he, as a law-abiding citizen, wrote to the EFCC to request for another date, hence the rescheduled appointment of Tuesday, July 31, 2018. According to the statement, Ekweremadu honoured the 10am appointment on the fixed date and left in the evening of the same day when he was granted bail on self-recognizance with an understanding that he would report at the EFCC office at 10am the next day for a continuation of the interview. “So, there was no interrogation whatsoever on Wednesday, let alone presentation of so-called additional “facts” that purportedly triggered his blood pressure. Likewise, there were no new “facts” presented to him the previous day, Tuesday, July 31, beside those concocted by the dismissed Chief Judge of Enugu State, Innocent Umezulike and his cohorts in their petition”, the statement added. In another statement yesterday by Ekweremadu’s media aide, he said reports that he developed blood pressure in the EFCC custody were false. The statement by his media aide reads: “My attention has been drawn to false reports in some national dailies that the Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, developed High Blood Pressure in the custody of the EFCC upon alleged presentation to him of a fresh set of purported “hidden properties” supposedly acquired by him. There is no truth to this propaganda. “He reported at the EFCC on Wednesday, August 1, 2018, at 10am as scheduled, but informed them that he was not feeling well, a fact the EFCC doctor confirmed. He was then allowed to leave to see his doctor and it was agreed that a new date would be fixed for continuation of the interview. “So, there was no interrogation whatsoever on Wednesday, let alone presentation of so-called additional “facts” that purportedly triggered his blood pressure. Likewise, there were no new “facts” presented to him the previous day, Tuesday, July 31, beside those concocted by the dismissed Chief Judge of Enugu State, Innocent Umezulike and his cohorts in their petition. “The Office feels compelled by the mischief and orchestrated media trial to put the “facts” straight on this particular issue. We thank our supporters for their genuine concern and prayers. We equally urge them to remain calm.” 