PLUS Bold and courageous Princess Ibironke Alaba believes diligence in whatever calling always paves the way for attaining one’s dream. Alaba, a former Chairperson of the Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers (NIESV), Ogun State chapter, shares her background and career with Femi Ogbonnikan Tell us about your background and growing up in Lagos? I am from a royal family of Ogundelesanmi from Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State and Orugbo, in Lagos State. I am apparently a Princess. I hail from Ijebu-Ode and I also have a link with Lagos, Orugbo where my family was enthroned as king. I was actually born in Somolu but I grew up in Surulere, where I started my primary school at Elizabeth Fowler Memorial School, located at Mercy Eleni Street, Surulere and we lived in the popular Shitta area. We had a mosque and a church opposite the building. We would all go to the church and clap, while on Fridays we would all go to the mosque too. So, we had our own fun. Most of us are doing well. Some are within the shores, while others are outside the shores. So, we thank God for His mercy. I moved down to Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State, for my secondary school education at Muslim Girls’ High School. After graduation from the Muslim Girls’ High School, I had a bit of delay because I was insisting on being a food technologist. I latter settled for Estate Management at the Kwara State College of Technology. I had my OND there and came back to Lagos for one year industrial attachment with Mark Odu & Co. In actual fact, they retained me. The principal partner then, Nze Mark Odu, said he discovered some traits in me, that I am an intelligent and a versatile person. He said he was going to retain me after the one year attachment. So, because of that, I was put on a retainership and I had to look for a school within Lagos. So, I got admission at Yaba College of Technology where I did my HND. After the service year, I was absorbed back by Mark Odu & Co. That was where I started my journey in Estate Surveying and Valuation.  What was it like growing up in Surulere? Well, it was fun-filled. My own story is quite thrilling. I told you that my family dominated block 15. It is interesting that I was actually not living with my parents, but with my dad’s younger brother and his wife. We shared the same floor. Despite living together in the same block, I dared not go to my father’s flat. My uncle’s wife had a shop where she sold eggs and provisions. I had to hawk in the morning for her. I would wake up by 4:00am, take a full crate of eggs and hawk it around Surulere. I would return home again, the children would still be sleeping and I would be the one to wake them up. I knew my clients, and under one hour and 30 minutes, I would have sold every egg. I had extra years in my primary school because of all these hard works. Even in the evening, I would still hawk provisions for her. Those were the ways I was brought up. And incidentally, too, because my family was well-to-do, even within the block, they would be watching me because I would be the one to hawk and also be doing lessons for the younger ones at home. After going through all the hawking and the rest of it, I would still come back home to teach my younger ones. If I failed to do home chores, I would be made to carry grinding stone on my head as punishment. I had my own share of good experience, even from my secondary school years at Ijebu-Ode. When I left primary school, I was put in a boarding and that gave me a kind of relief over all the chores and hawking I was doing in Surulere. So, I had a brief freedom at the secondary school. I was a kind person, but too strict and disciplined. So, I like things being done accordingly. Among my mates, may be because of the extra years I had in primary school, I was a bit matured, when I got admitted into the secondary school and I usually acted as if I was older than everyone. So, it assisted me a lot to be very hard working. During my secondary school, I was made the head girl. I did my beat anyone but I was tough. Even my friends were afraid of me. My seniors too would try to avoid me. My juniors were close to me because they knew that I could protect them. When I got to Kwaratech, I looked at everybody as my younger ones. At Kwaratech, I was part of the Muslim Society. It was from Kwaratech that I joined Rotaract Club. I became a member of the club because I tried to find out what they were doing, and I realised they are into humanitarian services. I love those kinds of things – giving to the needy. So, I took to Yabatech, and I participated in some of these shows. I have also been a sports person. I forgot to mention that. I was particularly good in Volleyball. When I gained admission into Yabatech that was what I used to get an accommodation in one of the hostels. Hostel accommodation was very easy for me and once you were a sport person, it was automatic. With sports and Rotaract activities at Yabatech, I actually had fun.  While either at Kwaratech or Yabatech, did you have dates? Aah!…I missed out.  Honestly, whenever I look back at myself, I would say, ‘Ronke, see what you have caused yourself’. I am such a person with stringent rules. I would lay out rules like ‘I can’t befriend somebody that is within my school, within my street, within my this and within my that’. So, even in school, like I told you, I used to look at all of them as if they were not my age mates, I didn’t actually have a date, but I only remember one person there that was very much attached to me and thank God today, we are still good friends. That was at Kwaratech. And today, when he starts his own story, I am sorry, he would want to say somebody tormented him, but we eventually became good friends. Even the same thing happened at Yabatech; people would come to me, but my look, my own ways of doing things in a very hard way scared everybody. I was just a one-way traffic.  At what age did you get married? I got married at age 29. The person that I married was 30 years old, then. We are just one year apart.  How did you get into a male-dominated profession –  Estate Surveying and Valuation? I came across the profession by chance. It was just coincidental that somebody just got an admission for me at Kwaratech and I was offered either Town Planning or Estate Management. But eventually, he told me that from his own research, Estate Management would make me an instant millionaire and I jumped at it. Who doesn’t want to be a millionaire? That was how I ventured into it.  As the Ogun State chairperson of the Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers (NIESV), what were the challenges you faced? I was actually the first female chairperson of the branch. At the time, people were like, ‘it was the turn of a female to head’. Even though there were still some competitions among the men, I eventually emerged because there was an election. In fact, it was that very year that we started having elections. Before then, it was by nominations. But we had an election in that year, we had to campaign and go round and I emerged as the winner. As a female chairman, I think, I was the second in the whole nation and the first person was just three months ahead of me, because their own election came up sometime in January and ours came in April. It was still the same year. So, I was the second in the whole nation. I was the first female chairperson in Ogun State and second in the entire nation. My own background is work, work and work. I always have a target and I must meet up. So, once you find yourself in that profession, you would have to turn yourself to a man. Apart from that, before you can become the chairman, you would have held some positions within the trade. I have held positions of social officer, treasurer and vice-chairman. I thank God that I have a lot of achievements during my own tenure, particularly encouraging more people to be elected into the Associate cadre of the institution.  Tell us some of your high and low points in life? God has made me to excel in my chosen career. God has given me good children. They are doing well. God has sustained me to the level of being able to cope with all the challenges I might have faced in the world. So, I want to thank God for that. And I want to thank my family members. However, my low point has to do with my matrimonial life. And each time I remember that aspect, I don’t feel good because I think, may be, I made a wrong choice or something went wrong along the line and it did not work. And to my own family, they see a woman leaving her husband as taboo. And before I could take that decision, I was suffering and suffering and I was looking at a way out. However, God paved a way and things went on smoothly…. And everybody is fine. My children are doing well. I am sure he is doing well wherever he is too.  Apart from your matrimonial life, are there other indelible challenges? Well, may be, in the course of my profession, particularly where I work. I had a kind of story that I don’t like talking about. However, there is nothing bad about it. You see, when you are a woman and you are moving up in your career, most people would want to attribute it to, may be, she is befriending the head. May be, she is dating somebody. And when you are meant to be promoted or you have been recognised, they would want to attack you and slow things down. It happened to me where I worked before. Honestly, each time I remember that, I feel bad.