By Bennett  Oghifo Toyota Nigeria Limited has unveiled the all-new Toyota Camry, the 8th generation model to journalists and dealers. According to the Managing Director of TNL, Mr. Kunle Ade-Ojo, whose speech was read by the General Manager, Corporate Services, Mr. Bunmi Onafowokan, the new generation Camry was yet another masterpiece from the stable of Toyota Motor Corporation (TMC) Japan to be sold in the Nigerian automobile market. The Camry model, Ade-Ojo said in his speech, was first introduced in 1982 and has evolved through generations to what was now being described as the 8th Generation All New Camry. He said as at 2015, over 18 million units of this delectable model had been sold across regions, adding that the model had “undergone a total transformation and transition, from a proven sedan to one that pushes the boundaries of technology.  It is a model that has enjoyed a high level of goodwill and acceptance not only for the superior quality engineering behind it but also for its stunning beauty. “It is no exaggeration that the rich history of this model already imbues it with outstanding attributes peculiar only to all its siblings in our model line-up.  From its upgraded, trendier exterior to its spacious interior design, the latest model of the Camry (being introduced in the Nigerian market) available in 2.5L and 3.5L engines will readily arouse in its lovers a driving pleasure unparalleled in its class. Indeed it is a remarkable package of safety, comfort and performance in equal proportion.” He said TNL had not been deterred by the nation’s economic downturn. “In fact, it has positively impacted on our creativity in responding to the demands of our dear customers all over Nigeria and we will continue to explore ways of keeping them satisfied and also uphold our culture of excellence. The all new Camry, according to a presentation by TNL’s Marketing Manager, Mr. Bayo Olawoyin, has leading fuel economy and driving performance; high efficiency, high power next generation “Dynamic Force Engine”, powerful acceleration and new direct shift 8AT contributing to low fuel consumption, sequential shifter that allows shift operation like in Manual Transmission, Improved noise reduction. 2.5L Engine 215/55R17 tire size, 6 Speed Automatic Transmission, 8 inches Display Audio, DVD, 6Speakers, dual auto AC, 1-12V console box, 2 USB at rear, Push Start, Cruise Control, Clearance/Back Sonar, Reverse Camera. 3.5L Engine 235/45R18 tire size, 8 Speed Automatic Transmission, 8 Inches Display Audio, DVD, 6 Speakers, 3-Zone Auto AC, 1-12V console box,2USB at rear, Push Start, Cruise Control, Clearance and Back Sonar, Reverse Camera, Rear seat control panel, reclinable rear seat. New Direct Shift 8-Speed Electronically Controlled Automatic Transmission with Eco, Normal and Sport Modes Camry’s newly developed direct shift 8-Speed automatic transmission improves acceleration from a stop, provides a smooth ride even at high speeds and helps enhance fuel efficiency. The three distinct available drive modes give you even more control. Sport mode indulges your spirited side with a sharper acceleration feel, Eco mode adjusts throttle input to maximize your efficiency. Normal mode blends fuel economy with performance. Thanks to this choice of drive modes, a perfectly tailored drive arrives with the push of a button. Engine Performance Camry offers a compelling choice of petrol engines, the all-new 2.5LDynamic Force 4-cylinder and a new 3.5L V6, each delivering a sophisticated blend of performance and efficiency. Both engines utilize the D-4S direct-injection system, which selects the optimal injection method based on driving conditions to pack a powerful punch with enhanced fuel economy to boot. The new 2.5L engine has improved performance by approximately 6% over that of the outgone model. Utility and Comfort Rear seat can be reclined at the touch of a button, reduced gap between windshield and roof to reduce wind noise, a hood silencer to keep engine noise out of the cabin, rear control panel allows power seat, power sun shade and AC adjustment from the rear cabin of the vehicle. High Quality Ride Equipped with light weight high rigidity body and new suspension, new double wishbone rear suspension system, low centre of gravity resulting from overall height, floor height, lowered hood, high rigidity body with a 30% increased torsional rigidity, new four point engine mount to reduce engine vibration transmitted to the cabin, sound deadening and sound insulation material with increased areas and thickness. World Top Class Safety Performance Safety body with a leading global rating and advanced safety, high strength cabin and collision support body to effectively absorb and disperse shock, all speed dynamic radar cruise control. Segment Leading Advanced Human Machine Interface (HMI) Intuitive, easy to use next generation interface and easy to read information display screen, easy to see 8 inch audio system, sporty space that surrounds the driver and increased cabin space. Impressive Value for Money Back monitor with pedestrian detector, intelligent clearance sonar rear cross traffic auto brake, adaptive front lighting system, rear electric sunshade, rear electric reclining seats, electronic parking brake. More on the features of the all new Camry LED Headlamp with LED Daytime Running Lights (DRL) More Efficient and Powerful available LED headlights naturally add a stylish touch. Coloured Multi Information Display The available 7-inch colour Multi Information Display will also display your current and average fuel economy, compass heading and audio presets. Multi-Media Touch Screen The All New Camry offers 8-inch Multi-Media touch screen and available 6 speakers, 800-Watt Entune 3.0 Premium Audio. You feel more at home with this type of audio system. Advanced Airbag Standard The All New Camry comes standard with an Advanced Airbag System with advanced dual-stage SRS driver and front passenger airbags, in addition to front and rear side curtain airbags. There are 9 airbags in all and all focuses on your safety. Brake Hold When the brake-hold switch is ON and the transmission is engaged other than Park or Reverse, the brake is automatically applied. In fact, the electronic parking brake will automatically engage after 3 minutes if the car has not moved. Roominess Vehicle interior has been redesigned to be more roomy especially for the rear occupants to enhance the luxury feel of the vehicle. The seats have also been redesigned to increase comfort for all occupants.