In its reaction, the PDP urged the National Assembly to immediately pull the full weight of all legislative instruments against President Buhari as a way of saving the country from an imminent collapse. The party said that by sending armed security men to invade the National Assembly and blocked lawmakers from accessing the legislative chambers; President Buhari had crossed the line and put the democracy in jeopardy. In a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP condemned what it said was an attempt to shut down the highest lawmaking organ of the Nigerian government. “The invasion of our highest legislative institution by agents of the Buhari-led executive, a few months after the Senate mace was blazingly carted away by armed hoodlums, is condemnable, reprehensible, unpardonable, and completely unacceptable,” the party said. It added: “With this siege, barely a week after presiding officers of the Senate were held hostage at their residences, it has become clear that the Buhari Presidency and the All Progressives Congress (APC) intend to forcefully overrun and ultimately shut down the highest lawmaking organ of the Nigerian government and pave the way for the total suspension of constitutional rule in the country.” APC Condemns National Assembly Invasion The APC too condemned in strongest terms, what it described as the unfortunate invasion of the National Assembly by security forces, saying the party wholly dissociates itself from any act of brigandage and affront on the sacred symbols of our budding democracy. According to the party in a statement by its Acting Publicity Secretary, Mr. Yekini Nabena, “Our party remains a law abiding political organisation and advises every constituent part to abide by the tenets of our constitution and our democracy. “While our contention with the leadership of the National Assembly as currently constituted is a matter of public record, we still believe that the legislature as an independent arm of government must be allowed free reign for vibrant contestation of ideas and values amongst its members within the context of their constitutional mandate and for the benefit of the Nigerian people. “We call for a more harmonious working relationship between the various arms of government in the general interest of the country.” 