Chinedu Eze Organisers of Akwaaba African Travel Market has announced that Dubai would be attending the event this year with over 15 companies. Dubai has become the biggest destination for Nigerian travellers with over 20 flights a day terminating in Dubai from Lagos and Abuja. It is believed that over 300,000 Nigerians pass through Dubai every year. These companies include Jumeirah, Red Apple, Khimji, Sun and Sand, Apha Tours, Swissotel and Copthorne Hotel.
Others are Rayna Tourism, Mgallery, Arabian Adventures, Dubai Health Authority, Wings Tours, Pullman City Centre Hotel, JA Resorts & Hotels, Ritz Carlton and Dubai Tourism. This comes as Gambia Tourism Board seeks to renew their presence in Nigeria. As part of latest efforts to increase awareness for The Gambia as an all-year tourism destination for discerning Nigerian visitors and prospective investors, the Gambia Tourism Board has announced its participation at the 14th Akwaaba – African Travel Market holding in Lagos between September 9th to 11th 2018. Also, The Gambia confirmed its participation with a 20-man delegate for the event to include top stakeholders in the industry to be led by the Director General, Gambia Tourism Board. Earlier this year, the Akwaaba travel market team had organised the ‘Banjul Bantaba’ event with a familiarization trip to the Gambia and a high powered B2b session which showed Nigerians the amazing potentials for Touristic splendor and introduced some of the new tour operators to the destination. The fall out was amazing with increasing requests for packages to The Gambia. The organisers of Akwaaba Travel Market, west Africa’s largest meetings and exhibition event is excited to announce that Gambia will be participating this year after three years of absence from the annual trade show in Nigeria. In a statement signed by the Marketing Director, Gambia Tourism Board, Adama Njie, the organisation promised visitors to The Gambia stand on Gambia Day an unforgettable Gambian experience. Top hotels, Tour Operators and stakeholders would be attending from The Gambia. He assured visitors a “taste of some of our national cuisine, music and multimedia presentation of the range of our trendy and exquisite resort facilities, cultural patrimony, ecotourism, exotic fauna and flora attributes throughout our beautiful country, which have earned The Gambia the acronym –the Smiling Coast of Africa. The Gambia Day event is set to flow from Sunday with the Jollof rice contest into Monday where the Gambia Day proper will hold, The Gambia is keeping no secrets as they will be deploying the best of the team to meet Nigerians and see the beautiful loving tourist destination. Gambia Tourism Board wants Nigerians to know that they are welcomed at any time and the event is open for all. With increased access to the Gambia offered by flights Asky and Air Peace, Banjul with its beautiful beaches and rich culture is accessible to all travellers in Africa.
The Gambia would be raffling a week stay in Banjul for Trade partners at Akwaaba for Lucky winners.