In a bid to help the nation’s outings at the Olympics to improve, the Nigeria Sports Development Fund Inc (NSDFI) will on Friday September 30, 2018 launch a 90-day campaign to raise N900m for 90 athletes preparing for Tokyo 2020 Games. According to a press statement issued by the Director General of the NSDFI, Olajide Fashikun, “our Olympic outings have not been very encouraging in recent times. This must change. We need 4.5million Nigerians to help us change the situation. From 1st September to 30th November is 90 days. With our people (Nigerians), it is very possible. “We want to give each of the 90 athletes from five sports N10million elite athlete development grants. “All we want is N200.00 or a multiple of N200.00 to take us there. You can pay to the account at Access Bank Nigeria, NSDFI (Elite Athlete Development) 0015464767 or just go to our website: www.nsdfi.com get to the ‘Elite Athlete Development Grant’ and follow the prompt. “We look forward to receiving your support. Early preparation will guarantee us medals. We want to lift the image and respect of our nation henceforth in international sports. We have the talents and that is what we are seeking you to support. According to NSDFI, Nigerian can make sports greater, stronger and better respected. “We do not have to wait for government. Our 1996 Atlanta Olympics like the 1994 Nations Cup team that won the cup in Tunisia and the 1994 World Cup that took the world by storm, ranked 5th best team in the world by FIFA were products of private funding just like what NSDFI is doing now and not government. “We have a seven-man committee that is expected to manage the monies we raise. The committee is headed by a former handball player and THISDAY journalist, Stanley Nkwazema. The other members of the committee include; former African badminton champion, Mrs Oby Solaja is Vice Chairman, first Nigerian to attend five Olympics, Chief Mary Onyali, and former 800m champion Fatimoh Muhammed. Former handball player, Emmanuel Olubiyo, College of Education Ilesa lecturer, Dr Olukayode Bolarinwa, and Lagos State SWAN Chairman Debo Oshundun complete the list of eminent sports personalities on the committee.