…Tony Elumelu Fellows, Edo young icons to lead peer review sessions All is set for a mentoring and peer review session for Edo youths, which will be led by the Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, representatives of global technology companies such as Facebook, Google, Andela, as part of activities to mark the International Youth Day. Other participants lined up for the mentoring and peer review event scheduled to hold at the Edo Innovation Hub in Benin City, are Oxfam, Curators, the Tony Elumelu Foundation and young Edo icons who are excelling in their various businesses, and ready to share their experiences with budding entrepreneurs in the state, some of whom benefitted from the empowerment initiatives of the state government, through EdoJob. In a statement, the Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to the Governor on Skills Development and Jobs Creation, Mrs. Ukinebo Dare, said, “Governor Godwin Obaseki will deliver the keynote remarks, while the opening remarks will be delivered by the deputy governor, Rt. Hon. Philip Shaibu.” She said that the event is being organised to celebrate youths and give them a platform to share their experience from the various skills development programmes organised by EdoJobs, speak on their challenges  and compare notes with successful chief executives of related businesses. The event, she said, “will feature Pitch Competition, where beneficiaries of the several skills development programmes organised by EdoJobs will share the stage with the Tony Elumelu Foundation, Mandela Washington Fellows and will bear their minds on issues regarding Green/Renewable energy, Information Communication Technology (ICT), Agriculture, Climate Change adaptation.” According to her, “There will be a Panel Session with youth-led organisations featuring beneficiaries of skills development training programmes organised by Google, Facebook, Andela, Curators and BudgIT. Dare added that there will be a session called ‘Edo Youth Award’, where awards will be given to youth who have excelled in various endeavours, adding that some of the categories include “Best in Common Entrance, Best Graduating Student (University), Winner of Business Competition, Best Student in Sports, Young Role Model and Award for Ability in Disability.” “There will be a Networking Session between youth and the fellows who are beneficiaries of other job creation initiatives,” she said.