Arsenal will be looking to record their first points of the new season when they face Manuel Pellegrini’s West Ham, who are equally in search of their first Premier League points this afternoon The Gunners have endured a miserable start to the season which has seen them lose to champions Manchester City and FA Cup holders Chelsea in successive weeks. However, Unai Emery will be confident of picking up his first point as his side faces only one of three sides that have fared worse than the Gunners this season. The Hammers were thoroughly dismantled 4-0 by Liverpool on the opening weekend before they imploded at home to Bournemouth to lose 2-1. Both teams are still adopting new styles of play and incorporating their summer additions into their starting XIs, with Arsenal’s Matteo Guendouzi and West Ham’s Felipe Anderson among the best performers for either side so far. When Pellegrini and Emery were appointed within a day of each other in May, neither could have envisaged that when their teams met for the first time three months later, West Ham United and Arsenal would be at the bottom and pointless. Two games are no measure of a season, and both were handed the hardest possible opening fixture, but their poor starts have given today’s derby at the Emirates an unexpected edge as each scrambles to kick-start a response. Both managers have arrived with a bagful of experience and trophies; with Arsenal boss Emery a multiple Europa League winner with Sevilla and West Ham’s Pellegrini a Premier League champion with Manchester City. Each can expect the time to ensure they adjust after securing the all-important first win. Of the two, Emery has taken on arguably the greater challenge, succeeding Arsene Wenger at a club needing to reassert its top-four potential. Former Arsenal players have a vocal place in the British media and are divided about what they have seen so far from the Spaniard. Ray Parlour and Alan Smith both praised the way he was quick to make changes in the two defeats, substituting Aaron Ramsey after 53 minutes against Manchester City and Mesut Ozil in the 68th minute at Chelsea. “That’s a strong statement to make in these early weeks when everyone is trying to come to terms with the manager’s methods. A lack of accountability, after all, had marred Arsene Wenger’s last few years,” wrote Smith in the Evening Standard on Friday. “Irrespective of performance, you never got the feeling Ozil would be dropped under Wenger. If fit, the inconsistent playmaker seemed guaranteed a place.” Under Wenger, Ramsey and Ozil started a combined total of 45 games last season but the arrival of Lucas Torreira from Sampdoria and Matteo Guendouzi, arguably Arsenal’s best player in their first two games, from Lorient has added competition. The fact that Torreira has not started yet has surprised another former player, Tony Adams, who felt that Emery has presided over two Wenger-like performances, with Arsenal lacking the sort of defensive steel the Uruguay World Cup midfielder was presumably bought to provide. “I felt so sad about that. Everyone knows what Arsenal have been missing – it’s that steel, that resilience,” wrote Adams in The Sun. “Whether Emery can coach it or not I don’t know yet, it is early days.” Such arguments over Arsenal’s midfield will not be lost on former Gunner Jack Wilshere, who will play for West Ham today after being told in a 15-minute conversation with Emery that he did not feature in his plans after 197 appearances for the club. Wilshere’s quality has never been in doubt but his poor injury record made a parting likely and he has faced a tough opening to his West Ham career with a 4-0 thumping at Liverpool followed by an embarrassing 2-1 cave-in at home to Bournemouth. Wilshere is determined to show Arsenal what they missed out on when he visits his former club for the first time, after he left Arsenal at the end of last season following the expiry of his contract, ending a 17-year stay at the North London side since joining the club’s academy at the age of nine. “It’s down to me to prove a point to Arsenal that they were wrong to get rid of me,” the 26-year-old Wilshere told West Ham’s match-day programme. “It’ll be a strange one for me as I was never able to go there and play when I went out on loan as you can’t play against your parent club,” Wilshere added. “But it’s one I’m looking forward to… I quite fancy our chances.” The lack of pace at the heart of West Ham’s midfield, where Wilshere has partnered Mark Noble, has been questioned by pundits and fans. Pellegrini is likely to be forced into a change today with captain Noble unlikely to be fit, with Pedro Obiang set to come in. West Ham spent around 105 million pounds on new players in the close season and Pellegrini said he was unconcerned about the poor start. “If you review my career, at Villarreal, at Malaga, at Manchester City, the first games that I managed were never good games,” he said while acknowledging that some of West Ham’s defensive work against Bournemouth had been unimpressive. Any repeat today will sharply crank up the pressure.  Stats Arsenal is unbeaten in the previous nine London derbies at the Emirates. Arsenal has 28 victories over West Ham with West Ham managing just seven out of the 44 previous meetings between the London clubs in the Premier League. Today’s match will be the 139th meeting between the clubs with Arsenal leading with 65 wins and West Ham with 34 wins. The last time Arsenal suffered successive defeats was in 1954/55 season. Arsenal won 47 Premier League points at home last season. Only champions Manchester City managed more, with 50. West Ham have won five PL matches away against Arsenal, three at Highbury and two at Emirates Stadium. Only Liverpool and Manchester United have triumphed away against the Gunners on more occasions, with seven and eight victories respectively. Arsenal’s Matteo Guendouzi has made 17 tackles and interceptions combined this season; four more than any other player. Fixture Today Wolves v Man City 12:30 Southampton v Leicester  15:00 Arsenal v West Ham 15:00 Bournemouth v Everton 15:00 Huddersfield v Cardiff 15:00 Liverpool v Brighton 17:30 Sunday Watford v C. Palace 13:30 Fulham v Burnley  16:00 Newcastle v Chelsea 16:00 Monday Man Utd v Tottenham 20:00 Premiership Table Man City 2 7 6 Liverpool 2 6 6 Chelsea 2 4 6 Watford 2 4 6 Tottenham 2 3 6 Bournemouth 2 3 6 Everton 2 1 4 Leicester 2 1 3 Man Utd 2 0 3 Crystal Palace 2 0 3 Brighton 2 -1 3 Newcastle 2 -1 1 Southampton 2 -1 1 Wolves 2 -2 1 Burnley 2 -2 1 Cardiff 2 -2 1 Arsenal 2 -3 0 Fulham 2 -4 0 West Ham 2 -5 0 Huddersfield 2 -8 0