Femi Ogbonnikan in Abeokuta Ogun State Chairman, Academic Staff Union of Secondary School (ASUSS), Mr. Akeem Lasisi has called on the state government to recruit more teachers into both teaching and non-teaching positions to reduce the shortage of personnel in the sector. Speaking at the 2018 Ogun State Teaching Service Commission (TESCOM) awards ceremony held recently, at Ontec Events Centre, in Abeokuta, Lasisi noted that the need for recruiting more teachers has become very imperative considering the vacuum created by those going on retirement every year. The Chairman, Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), Ogun State Chapter, Mr. Titilope Adebanjo said the awards for deserving and hard working staff would promote, reward and sustain efficiency and effectiveness in the school system in the state with a view to raising academic performance and meet up with the ‘Ogun standard’. “As stakeholders in the education sector, it is our responsibility to provide the learners with opportunities to acquire necessary knowledge, skills and attitudes for the development of the nation. In doing this, it is intended to develop learner’s skills and capacities in Information and Communication Technology(ICT). “The award to teachers and members of the non-teaching staff afford us a good sense of belonging and rewards to those who have been exemplary in the discharge of their duties within and outside the classrooms, for the betterment of our educational system in Ogun State”, Adebanjo stressed. In her remarks, the Chairman, Ogun State TESCOM, Mrs. Olabosipo Ogunsan, said the motive behind the award was to celebrate excellence, professionalism, loyalty, dedication, innovation a high sense of responsibility of both teaching and non-teaching staff for quality education delivery in the state. According to her, “the awardees have been carefully chosen to put the right peg in a round hole. Though we are not perfect, yet those who are to be awarded today, by the time they are being introduced, will justify whatever decision we might have taken. Therefore, this award is a wake-up call to the awardees, to work harder because to whom much is given, much is expected. “This is not to say that those who have not been selected for any award are lazy or not recognised or appreciated but the fact remains that, out of the best, there must be number one.” She commended the Amosun administration for its support and creating an enabling environment for teachers to practice their profession effectively. “ We are indeed very grateful for the brand new bus, constant release of funds for monitoring, provision of fantastic support for this award, linkage with non-governmental organisations, for the training of teachers and so many other things, too numerous to mention. “We shall appreciate it more, if the government could consider for approval, the promotion of teachers and the recruitment of more teaching and non-teaching staff, to fill the wide gap that has been created by deaths, retirements, resignations among others, ” Ogunsan said. A total of 20 teaching and non-teaching staff were recipients of the awards in the different categories including; best principal, best teacher, best non-teaching staff, outstanding old student association, outstanding education supporting individuals, outstanding education supporting organisations. Others were; outstanding leadership award, chairman’s recognition award, exemplary leadership award, education service award, long service award, best senior staff in TESCOM headquarters and best junior staff in TESCOM headquarters, among others.