Prima Foods, makers of Indomie Noodles has thrown its weight behind the Leadership Empowerment and Resource Network (LEARN) programme, as part of its commitment to societal growth. LEARN was initiated by wife of a former Lagos State governor, Mrs. Abimbola Fashola, and was dedicated to grooming tomorrow’s leaders to be confident, self-sufficient and socially responsive through education, vocational skills acquisition and recreation. The company, which reached out to its core customers- the children and youth, this summer season, donated education materials and cash to the centre to ensure that the students possess all they required for deep learning. Speaking at the donation ceremony, Public Relations and Events Manager of the company, Mr. Tope Ashiwaju, said that the firm’s consistent support for the programme over the past 11 years was  a right step to empower young people with skills  needed to succeed in life. He said: “As a brand, Indomie is committed to the total welfare of young people, who need vocational skills to survive in the future and vocational education is the key to developing those skills. We realised it early enough that it can be part of the preparations for the future of young people through LEARN. Like every other year, Indomie is partnering the centre this year to educate and create a better future for Nigeria’s teeming young persons through donations and we hope this will boost the objectives of the centre.” Asiwaju also urged the students to take advantage of the opportunity to impact their future by being committed to the programme, adding that the brand was ever ready to contribute to their development  in all ramifications. Chief Operating Officer of LEARN, Mrs. Ronke Oguntoyinbo while commending the company said:  “We are excited by this gesture. It shows that someone somewhere appreciates and identifies with our thoughts and programme to secure the future of our youths. We promise to utilise these items judiciously for the purpose they were given.” Speaking on behalf of the students, Master Oke Olumide, thanked the company for supporting a cause that guarantees their future pursuit.