La Casera Apple drink, the flagship brand of The La Casera Company (TLCC), has joined the rest of the world to celebrate the ‘International Fruit Day’  to strengthen bond between family and friends. The international fruit day is a day dedicated for people to share the benefits of fruits to family, friends and the needy as a symbol of love and joy. It is a day set aside to promote positive living conditions amongst people of different creeds, beliefs and ways of life. Recognising the need for empathy in the light of the daily challenges in our nation, the soft drink brand celebrates the internationally recognised day, seeing the celebration as needful in helping to spread love and good cheer. Speaking on the day, Managing Director of the firm, Roland Ebelt, stated further that the idea of the day was to share a meal, in the way of fruits to family, friends and the needy. “In Nigeria, La Casera is seen as the foremost apple soft drink, hence it is fitting that we use our brand to foster peace and offer comfort to many in our country today. “Celebrating the international fruit day is also not a difficult move for a brand that is synonymous to Apple in Nigeria. The company has set a record in the soft drink industry by being the first to launch an apple soft drink into the market in PET bottles. Each bottle now contains 5 per cent real apple fruit juice, a proud feat achieved only by us in the soft drink market”, he said. He added: “We are always looking at new ways to delight all our consumers and so we put a lot of creative consideration into our brand. We ensure that we go ahead of the curve, while still retaining the high quality we have always been known for. This is the reason we have the highest percentage of real apple juice in the market. We want to be able to give someone a La Casera in place of a real apple, and there wouldn’t be too much of a difference. That is the aim, to stay creative and innovative under the strictest of conditions. We recently unveil different sizes of the product to ensure that everyone can enjoy premium apple at affordable prices.”