Emirates has unveiled a new range of amenity kits and products for its premium customers, as well as new Bowers and Wilkins headphone for first class passengers. New amenity bag designs see Emirates continue its partnership with Bulgari, with a total of eight designs and colours in both business and first class. The Gulf carrier has also partnered with Byredo to provide first class passengers with the firm’s travel wellness range of skincare products. Passengers will benefit from a cleansing face towelette, facial toner, eye cream, chamomile roll-on sleep oil, and chamomile pillow mist spray. The new kits are paired with a faux leather notebook and pen. First class customers will also receive new Bowers and Wilkins Active Noise Cancelling E1 headphones, created exclusively for Emirates using “a unique hybrid noise cancellation technology optimised for the Emirates first class cabins”. Both the amenity products and headphones were initially offered on Emirates’ new B777 suites, but are now being rolled out across aircraft with first class cabins. This is as rival Gulf carrier Etihad recently launched new amenity kits in partnership with Italian fragrance brand Acqua di Parma. Travellers flying in Etihad’s premium cabins will be getting new amenity kits developed in partnership with Italian fragrance brand Acqua di Parma starting next month. The new kits will be offered to passengers flying in first or business class on board long-haul flights as well as passengers travelling in the airline’s The Residence cabin on its Airbus A380 superjumbos, which operates routes from Abu Dhabi to London, Paris, New York and Sydney. For first class passengers, there is just one choice of colour with all kits being in a vibrant yellow. These kits contain a bottle of Colonia perfume, a 40ml bottle of body lotion and lip balm. Cabins also feature Colonia hand wash and hand cream toiletries, while the Colonia bathroom amenity kits have shower gel, body lotion, shampoo and conditioner. Curiously, business class passengers do get a choice of colour for their kits, with both yellow and black bags available. Etihad describes these as a “unisex wallet bag”, which can also be buttoned to make a valet tray. A Colonia sampler along with hand cream – also available in the business class bathrooms – will be included in the business class kits. For those travelling in the airline’s most elite The Residence cabin, a bespoke range of toiletries and fragrances are available in the private shower room alongside a Colonia amenity kit. Men are given Colonia Pura cologne, while women receive Magnolia Nobile perfume. Etihad first began partnering with Acqua di Parma in 2014, with the company’s amenities being featured exclusively in The Residence. “Extending this partnership through an exclusive selection of products in The Residence, first and business class, centred around our signature Colonia fragrance, was a highly anticipated extension and development of this long-term association,” said Laura Burdese, Acqua di Parma’s CEO and president. Acqua di Parma products will also be available at the airline’s First Class Lounge & Spa in Abu Dhabi.