By Francis Sardauna in Katsina President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State have urged Muslims to use this year’s Eid-el Kabir for sober reflection and be good ambassadors of their religion by upholding high moral values. Buhari, in his Sallah message in Daura, his hometown, reminded Muslims that the occasion of Eid-Arafat was a remembrance of the submission of Prophet Ibrahim to his creator (Allah) by which he hoped that the world would value sacrifice in relationship with one another. President Buhari said religion was a major factor of improving human behaviour, hence the need for Muslims to sustain the teachings of Prophet Muhammad. He said: “I urge you to live above personal growth and other interests to promote peace, harmony and tolerance in dealing with one another for peace to thrive in our country”. Buhari, however, said that the war against corruption was a battle that must be fought to protect the interest of the ordinary Nigerians, which he said were the worst hit victims of poverty, diseases, malnutrition and other afflictions. On the current economic crisis facing Nigerians, the president said it was temporary because the welfare of the people was the main focus of his administration. Governor Masari called for more sacrifices and obedience to leaders in the true spirit of Islam, stressing that the occasion also provides opportunity for both merriment and sober reflection for the advancement of the society. Masari, in a statement made available to THISDAY on Tuesday by his Senior Special Assistant on Media, Abdu Labaran Mulumfashi, said the importance of Eid-el Kabir cannot be over-emphasised, as it signifies sacrifice and unquestioned obedience to the command of Allah (SWT) by Prophet Ibrahim( AS). The governor stressed that the significance of the lesson of Eid-el Kabir cannot be more poignant, coming at a time when the nation required the virtues of sacrifice and obedience. According to him, “There is no doubt that Nigeria is facing serious challenges which the leadership under President Muhammadu Buhari is pulling out all the stops to address. The APC administration means well for all Nigerian citizens. “It is therefore incumbent on all well meaning citizens to assist the leadership to successfully navigate the country out of the dire straits in every positive way we can”. While admonishing Nigerians not to allow tribal, religious and political affiliations to divide them, Masari said: “We must resist and renounce politics of negative instincts, and put a distance between us and the proponents and promoters of such divisive tendencies, as their interest is at variance with the nation’s. “Therefore, in all we do and say, we must always put national above other considerations, this is the pillar upon which the foundation for strong and sustainable societies are built”.