Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti Sequel to the defection of some party top members to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the National Assembly, the Women Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State, Mrs. Modupe Bakare yesterday promised not to be disloyal to the party if elected member of House of Representatives in 2019. The women leader also urged women in the state to join and participate more in political activities in the forthcoming elections, noting that the time “has come for them to showcase their worth and exhibit their abilities for the uplift of the nation to enviable height.” Bakare expressed the view in a letter of intention addressed to the leadership of her constituency yesterday, explaining her resolve to contest the Ekiti Central Federal Constituency II, Ado-Ekiti. In the letter, the women leader noted that the party should consider the track records of members and ascertain their loyalty before getting the ticket. Unlike some party leaders that defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Bakare said she would not betray the confidence reposed in her ability to give the people the dividends of democracy and also show loyalty to the party in the running of government at the national level. She explained that the current situation in the National Assembly “is worrisome. But I know the crisis can have been avoided if the party leadership had done the right thing at the outset. I mean allowing the right people to get leadership positions. “I must say that I am not satisfied with the level of women participation in politics despite the advocacy. Our number is low and we expect our women to rise up to the occasion. I want to advise them to come out and participate. “We should not be voters only; we should also strive for positions that we make us part of decisions making in the matters that concern us in the country,” the women leader. She explained her reason to contest the federal legislative race, noting that it was borne out of her desire to serve the people and provide quality and responsive representation. She therefore solicited support from all party members, promising to collaborate with relevant agencies to attract development to the federal constituency and assuring her constituents never to disappoint them if given the mandate to represent the federal constituency in 2019. She said: “My desire to fulfill the above will provide me the opportunity to serve our people, provide quality leadership, equitable representation and ensure that dividends of democracy are delivered to our people even at the grassroots as and when due. “I will collaborate with all required government agencies to guarantee that both socio-economic and political developments and growth are witnessed by our dear constituency,” she promised. After submitting her letter of intention, the APC Chairman in Ijero Local Government Area, Mr. Adeola Adeyemo described Bakare as an individual who had contributed in no small measure to the development of the party.