Ibrahim Shuaibu in Kano Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, a presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has denied in strong terms a statement attributed to him that there would be consequences if the party fails to issue him the presidential ticket. The elder statesman was alleged to have boasted that the party has no other option than to give him the mandate to be its presidential standard bearer or there would be no peace in the party. Reacting to the malicious statement making the rounds wednesday, an associate of the former vice president, Alhaji Abdullahi Sugar, explained that the statement was not only false but malicious, fabricated by political opponents to dent the image of his boss. According to him, such statement would never come from a true democrat who has for a long time sacrificed his life for the betterment of Nigerian democratic culture. He reminded that in 2007 when all the governors of the federation stood by Atiku against Obasanjo to contest the presidential seat, he rescinded such offer on account that his party, the PDP, had an arrangement for a southern president. “You should recalled that Atiku had all the opportunities to became president but because of his respect for stipulated laid down rules, he rejected the offer,” Sugar said. He further made it clear that all Atiku is after is stability in the polity and the salvation of the Nigerian state from the present economic and socio political turmoil. According to him, “That is why you can see that Atiku is at the forefront welcoming all those whom have rejoined the party in recent times regardless of where they come from.” Sugar hinted that the candidature of Atiku is for all Nigerians “because as soon as he assumes office as president, the country would see a real change desired by all citizenry. “Nigerians should believe in Atiku because he is a man of tremendous values and sound character all aimed at making a better livelihood and a country free of killings, maiming and destruction of human lives.”