Ugo Aliogo The Cement Company of Northern Nigeria (CCNN) has announced the appointment of Senator Khairat Abdulrazaq-Gwadabe and Shehu Abubakar as Independent Directors of the company. In addition, Abbas Ahmad Gandi, was appointed as a non-executive director of the company. The appointment became effective July 12, 2018. A statement from the company explained that the appointments were ratified during the company’s recently held 39th Annual General Meeting in Sokoto. Speaking on these appointments, the Chairman of the CCNN Board of Directors, Abdul Samad Rabiu, was quoted to have said he was confident the new board members would bring their wealth of experience and expertise to bear on the affairs of the CCNN board. Also, he said the appointment was in line with the company’s commitment to the best corporate governance practices. According to Rabiu, “I am pleased to inform you that upon the recommendation of the Board of Directors of the Cement Company of Northern Nigeria (CCNN), Senator Khairat AbdulRazaq-Gwadabe and Shehu Abubakar have been appointed as independent directors. “Abbas Ahmad Gandi has also been appointed as a Non-Executive Director to represent Sokoto State Government in the board.” Abubakar had an extensive working career in the Banking Industry from 1987 to 2017 where he retired as an Executive Director of Keystone Bank Limited after putting in about 29 years in the Industry. He was also at different times a Director on the Boards of Global Bank of Liberia and KBL Health Care Limited. He holds a B.Sc. (Business Management) from Usman Danfodio University, Sokoto and an MBA from Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria and has attended many courses in the course of his career within and outside Nigeria at the Lagos Business School, Harvard Business School, Columbia Business School, Wharton Business School among others. Also, AbdulRazaq-Gwadabe, is a Barrister-at-Law and a Solicitor of the Supreme Court of Nigeria and the Managing partner of A. Abdulrazaq & Co, a firm of Legal Practitioners and Notaries Public. She obtained a B.A in European Studies and Spanish from the University of Wolverhampton,England (1982) and Universidad Complutense in Madrid, Spain(1981). She holds an LL.B from the University of Buckingham in England (1984) and was called to the Nigerian Bar in 1986. She later obtained a Masters Degree in Law (LL.M) from the University of Lagos, Nigeria in 1992. On his part, Gandi qualified as a Chartered Secretary from Chelmer Institute of Higher Education Chelmsford, England (now Anglia Ruskin University) in 1974. He had an extensive working career that spanned over two decades and retired as Director General (Permanent Secretary) in the Sokoto State Civil Service. Abbas was elected as a member of Constituent Assembly for the 1989 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. On his return from the Constituent Assembly he was appointed as Sole administrator/Chairman of Yabo Local Government Council in Sokoto State.