As the 2018 Cowbellpedia Mathematics competition heads to the final stage, it is getting more interesting and tougher as participants intensify efforts to clinch the golden prize. Amongst others, Yobe State’s chance in the contest got brighter when it emerged the first to secure a semi-final slot ahead of other representatives. This was achieved following the brilliant performance of 16-year-old Shuaibu Abdullahi of Tulip International College (Boys) in Damaturu. Rivers State’s hope was also heightened when a16-year-old Chinedu Mgbemena of Graceland International School, Port Harcourt, advanced to the semi-finals. In the heat of the competition, four other schools from Sokoto, Anambra, Gombe and Lagos State dropped out of the race. Shuaibu scored 94 per cent in the qualifying examination, He had won four other school competitions before now. He is however featuring in the Cowbellpedia Mathematics TV Quiz Show for the second time with a stronger spirit to triumph. Chinedu, who is also a second timer in the competition, is optimistic that he would emerge the 2018 champion. In the junior category, contestants from Oyo and Ogun States picked the two available semi-final tickets. This was through the efforts of Toluwanimi Olatunji of The International School, University of Ibadan, Oyo State; and Faisat Edu of Scholars Universal Secondary School, Ota, Ogun State. They both edged out four challengers – Elizabeth Okoli of The Ambassador College, Ogun State; Emannuella Ezurike of Federal Government Girls College, Owerri, Imo State; Jamila Mustapha of Globa Kids Academy, Sokoto, Sokoto State; and Love Eric of Air force Comprehensive School, Yola, Adamawa State. Toluwanimi, who scored 89 per cent in the qualifying examination conducted nationwide last February, disclosed that his parents ignited his interest in Mathematics, which thus boosted his confidence in the competition. On her part, Faisat, who scored 115 points in preliminary rounds, described her experience in the competition as ‘enjoyable.’ She traced her strides in Mathematics to the support from her teacher and parents.  In the spirit of the 20th anniversary, this year’s prize money has been increased by 100 per cent. Winners in both Junior and senior categories will receive N2 million each with an all-expense paid educational excursion outside the country; while the first and second runners-up will receive N1.5million and N1million respectively. The teachers of the top prize winners will each be rewarded with N500,000, while those of the first and second runners-up will each receive N400,000 and N300,000 respectively.