The effort of the federal government to achieve economic growth through diversification may not be getting all the necessary support it requires as core sectors identified to achieve economic diversification are not getting funds from banks, reports Bamidele Famoofo Diversification There is no doubt that petroleum (crude oil) has contributed substantially to Nigerian revenue since its discovery in 1956 and more especially, since 1970, when its price was on the upward trend. However, it is a known fact across the globe that for a country to attain growth and development, its economy has to be diversified. “Diversification does not occur in a vacuum. Mono-economy needs to give way to the productive development of various sectors of the economy”, Economics Lecturer, Chinecherem Uzonwanne, at Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, disclosed in a recent report on diversification of Nigeria’s economy. Uzonwanne, who argued that there was an urgent need for the Nigerian government to begin looking into diversification of various sectors of the economy so as to attain solid economic growth, cited instability in oil price, especially since June 2014 when price of oil fell by more than 40 percent from $115 a barrel, to about $70 per barrel till date. “It is a well-known fact that Nigeria’s continuous large earnings or revenue from this sector will be impossible.” It would be recalled that the Nigerian economy slipped into recession in 2016, a development triggered by dwindled government revenue occasioned by the fall in oil prices in the international market and unrest in the oil-rich Niger Delta region. The country, however, emerged from recession in the second quarter of 2017 after oil prices improved and relative peace was restored in the Niger Delta. But even as official figures show that the nation has exited recession, many Nigerians still complain that the effect of the exit is not felt in the economy. Plan The administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, like other administrations before it, indicated interest to diversify the economy when the prices of crude dropped below $40 per barrel, before climbing to about $70 per barrel at the moment. To achieve its economic diversification agenda, the Buhari government formulated a growth plan contained in its Economic Recovery Growth Plan (ERGP), being directly supervised by the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. ERGP, according to government’s economic management team, is aimed at increasing national productivity and achieving sustainable diversification of production, to significantly grow the economy and achieve maximum welfare for the citizens, beginning with food and energy security. Director General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Mr. Muda Yusuf, acknowledged that the ERGP was both a recovery and growth plan. “The government recognises the economic challenges that Nigeria faces and the need for urgent action. This plan is a blueprint for recovery in the short term and a strategy for sustained growth and development in the long term”. According to Yusuf, the policy objectives of the ERGP included targeted support to non-oil exports through specific incentives; removal of barriers to the local production of goods that are currently imported and support economic diversification. It also intends to improve the capital account balance by attracting foreign capital into the economy, particularly foreign direct investment (FDI), as well as increase accretion to the country’s external reserves. According to the Ministry of Budget & National Planning, ERGP focuses on six core sectors to grow the economy. Minister in charge of the ministry, Senator Udoma Udo Udoma, identified agriculture and transportation, power and gas and manufacturing and processing (including solid minerals) as the key sectors that will be developed to diversify the economy. Financing Though government has openly talked about the commitment to achieve the economic diversification agenda as contained in the ERGP, there are concerns that the avowed seriousness on the part of government does not yet extend to funding. For instance, statistics on how the banking sector in Nigeria distributed credit to the economy as at end of second quarter in 2018 showed that the banking industry seems not to be on the same page with government to achieve the diversification plan as commercial banks still prefer to give more money to operators in the oil and gas sector to the detriment of sectors already identified to stabilise the economy. The total amount of credit allocated by banks to the oil and gas sector in the second quarter of 2018 was put at N3.45 trillion compared to N3.42 trillion in the first quarter of the year. The NBS said the sector’s allocation in second quarter was the highest compared to other sectors. Credits allocated to agriculture and power and energy, two major sectors expected to drive economic diversification stood at a dismal 3.41 percent and 2.71 percent respectively as against 22.52 percent enjoyed by the almighty oil and gas sector in the period. Even the real sector represented by manufacturing sector got total credit allocation of N2.019 trillion, representing 13.16 percent of total credit to the economy in the second quarter of the year. The sector got less financing in second quarter compared with the N2.073 trillion it received in the first quarter. The agriculture sector got total credit allocation of N523 billion in the period under review, up from the N502 billion recorded the previous quarter. The power and energy sector also recorded total credit allocation of N416 billion in the period under review, lower than the N426 billion it got in the first quarter of the year. According to the report, a total volume of 509,668,433 transactions valued at N32.90 trillion were recorded in the second quarter of 2018 on electronic payment channels in the banking sector. Credit to government at N1.47trillion or 9.61 per cent of total credits far exceeds combined lending to both agriculture and oil and gas that stood at 6.12 percent. Beyond the banking industry, experts have said 90.6 percent of the 6,529 new projects inserted into the 2018 budget by the National Assembly did not align with the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan. A recent analysis by BudgIT shows that approximately 6, 529 new projects valued at N579.08 billion was inserted into the 2018 budget by the National Assembly. “Out of the 6,529 new projects entered into the budget, 90.6 per cent or 5,918 items have a unit value below N200 million. Also, the projects cannot be directly linked to the written, medium-term aspirations of the government as highlighted in the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan”, the report disclosed. Communications Lead of BudgIT, Abiola Afolabi, said: “An analysis of the inserted projects shows that N63.64 billion or approximately 11 per cent of the new projects added by the National Assembly will be spent on various training and capacity building programmes in 2018. Given that the budget will be largely funded by borrowings (as highlighted in the 2018 fiscal plan), it is disheartening to discover that most of the identified line items therein show a significant disconnect from the developmental goals of government, as stated in its Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP). We are alarmed at the number of micro-projects added by the National Assembly that may not fall within the core scope of the Federal Government.” CBN Interventions The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) said it has disbursed a total sum of N1.181 trillion through its several intervention schemes in an effort to help grow the Nigerian economy which is recovering from a recession, triggered by a drop in oil income. According to the CBN, the amount represented the total monies that had been disbursed as at June 2017, through its several intervention schemes. The Financial Stability Report for the period ended June 2017, released by the apex bank showed that N472.98 billion used for 513 projects had been disbursed through the Commercial Agriculture Credit Scheme (CACS) since its inception. In the first half of last year, the sum of N79.56 billion had been disbursed to 11 banks for 23 projects compared to N35.99 billion disbursed to 13 banks for 39 projects in the preceding period. This reflected an increase of N43.57 billion and a decrease of 16 projects. Repayments under the scheme during the first half of 2017 stood at N19.78 billion through 17 banks for 185 projects, bringing the repayments to N244.79 billion from inception. Also, a total of 21,073 loans valued at N3.03 billion had been guaranteed under the Agricultural Credit Guarantee Scheme (ACGS)in the first half of 2017 for two commercial and 36 microfinance banks as against 34,774 loans valued N4.47 billion for three commercial and 37 microfinance banks in the second half of 2016.