Collins Onyemali is founder of CEO’s Designers, a one-stop fashion establishment for the clothing needs of male top executives. He prides himself on meeting all male fashion expectations that are strictly made in Nigeria. In this interview with Mary Nnah at his showroom in Lagos, Onyemali talks about the professionalism he has put into his work to make his clients stand out and how he has tried to make Nigerians to patronise made in Nigeria goods. Excerpts: What motivated your interest in fashion? Paying more and getting less. First and foremost there are three issues in patronising the tailor. One, he is possibly going to give you what you never bargained for, especially in terms of finishing. Then he may also not deliver the job to you as and when needed, some give you less quality, others give you unfinished products, and to get them, you have to involve the police. All these variables are the reasons why we decided to make it a bit conducive for people to patronise made in Nigeria goods and services. Can you tell us more about your brand? We cover virtually everything that has to do with fashion. We make native outfits, agbada, dashiki, kaftan, djalabia, suits, corporate trousers and shirts. We also make shoes and perfumes and we stock accessories that are all designed and made in Nigeria by us. You call your brand CEO’s Designers. Is it only CEOs you attend to? Yes, we are fashion maker for the bosses, chief executive officers, people who appreciate values, that is what it connotes. Our fashion outfit is not for everybody; it is for people who understand taste and quality. Those are the people we are there to serve. However, if you are not yet a CEO, we pray you become one soon so that we can give our services to you. By saying we offer our services to CEOs only do not mean we do not want the patronage of the aspiring CEO. Anybody who can afford our services in our sight is a CEO. What made you narrow it down to CEOs? Being a professional at the same time an executive officer, I found out that in the Nigerian society, CEOs do not have readily available fitted clothes that befit their standards and status and they end up going abroad to get fitted clothes. So we decided to make this happen so that these persons do not go abroad anymore to spend our naira to buy dollar, instead they have these products readily available to them at their disposal. It is one of the things that inspired us to be CEOs’ designers. How have you been able to win the hearts of these CEOs? The answer is a big yes. Now you understand that good things are appreciated by the bosses and the people under them. No CEO sees anything good and walks past it. So if you are good and your collections are refining and tastefully made for people, a lot of CEOs will jump at it. So we have been working for CEOs and we are looking forward to having more of them patronise us. What is unique about CEO’s apparels? At CEO’s, we don’t just make clothes for making sake; we have targeted fittings that we expect from our outfit. For instance you are coming to attend a function, we take detail body measurement, to know the structure of the person so that whenever you put on the cloth, people will see that the cloth is tailored and suited for you. It is not like those days when tailors would make cloth for you, you wear it and you feel like you are wearing ‘buba’ and ‘sokoto’ and you can’t see the body structure. Men also have body structure like women do, but it is only here you see that people make clothes without detailing the body structure to suit men. So we decided to make it our trademark, strictly tailored to size. Tailored to size means taking into consideration all the joints and body structure of a person to give you a nice fitting. Again, what makes my process different are the finishing and quality of fabric. A lot of fashion houses in Nigeria today stock low quality fabrics but we don’t compromise on that. We give the best fabric quality to whoever can afford it. That is why we are not for everybody. How do you ensure customers’ measurements are accurate? We have a pre-section wherein we sit with the customers and they give us an idea what they want. Everyone has a history of what has made him run from one fashion house to another. So we start our interview section with knowing what you suffered in the past, and then tell us what you expect of us. We make a sketch or presentation of what we think you want based on your description, we come up with a sketch and once it is approved for production, we take body measurements which are called body detailing. This is to ensure that the measurement with which the outfit will be produced is suited for that person. So, it will be difficult if you give that person’s shirt to someone else to wear, it will not be the same because it is not tailored to suit that body structure and joint. What would you consider the biggest change in Nigeria’s fashion industry? In Nigeria, a lot of the big bosses are beginning to appreciate our local styles. Take for instance in church, you will be surprised that the population of those wearing natives outweigh the people wearing English. It is no longer an English affair. You see people going for conferences wearing natives. So it has become a style in the world and even the whites are doing that already. So the reform is starting and it’s moving as compared to how it was 10 years ago. What is the toughest thing about making clothes for CEOs? Getting a CEO to come for pre-fitting is the toughest. It is called pre-fitting because first time you make a cloth for someone you expect that there could be one or two adjustments because some people like their clothes to be smart, some want it fitted, and some want it good. Good means free, not like body-hugging cloth, so you find out that you have an issue when it comes to getting a CEO to come fit their clothes, they are hardly available. Time is of essence to their business, we quite understood that. So you have made cloth and want the customer to come fit it, but the man is in America or in the UK and you are in Nigeria. That is the challenge with the CEOs. Which CEO would you like to dress if you were to make a pick? I will like to dress Femi Otedola. I have been following him on Instagram and when I see some of the outfits that he wears, I think we could make him look better. I will like to dress Dangote as well as a lot of them. If you have money, your look should be very sharp and different from every other person who is struggling. If you have made money, what really defines your person is the cloth you wear because from a distance, it speaks louder than even a trumpet could sound. There are also women CEOs. Are they part of your clientele? We have chosen our path. Our path is to make clothes for men and male CEOs. This is our niche. We hear about the expression, “business casual”. What does it mean? Business casual is dressing in the mildest form but still looking attractive and rich. Business casual entails wearing something that to you is not serious like slippers that are worth thousands of naira, a pant that is worth good money and a top that complement all your outfit. Business casual means to be well dressed, without an intention of going for a board meeting, but still looking very adorable. Business casual comes in different patterns. You could have a top and pant combination where your shirt could be blue and black and you choose any of the colours of the pant to make a cap, your shoe or slippers in such a way that it complements all of these colours. At the end of the day, you have this very casual outfit that looks like a Xmas cloth. What vision do you have for CEO’s Designers? Our vision is to become one of the most sought after fashion house in Nigeria and Africa. Our vision is to deliver on our promises. If a client comes in and says I want to make a cloth, we have you interviewed, get what you expect from us and deliver on those promises without any hitch or setback.