•Senate president has adequate leadership skills, says Baraje Nseobong Okon-Ekong in Lagos and Hammed Shittu in Ilorin As more groups and individuals continue to urge Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki to formally declare his intention to run for the office of President of Nigeria, a Second Republic lawmaker from Adamawa State, Dr. Abdullah Umar Madidi has also said the Senate president would open a new vista of unity among Nigerians that would make the country attractive to other countries of the world. This is coming as a chieftain of the Reformed All Progressives Congress(R-APC), Alhaji Abubakar Kawu Baraje yesterday declared that Saraki possesses the needed leadership skills and exposures to take a shot at Nigeria’s presidency.
Madidi described Saraki as a leader with a good grasp of the challenges confronting Nigeria and with the capacity to successfully tackle the issues. “From his sojourn in the private sector, to his experience as a commissioner and then governor of Kwara State, his becoming a two-term senator and subsequently the Senate President, Bukola Saraki is in a world of his own and hence the most qualified at the moment to fly the flag of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the presidential election next year,” he said. Speaking on his conviction for Saraki’s candidature, Madidi said Saraki can be likened to a political genius whose emergence from the North-central geo-political region would be the binding new spirit and cohesion that was vitally needed by the nation at this crucial time. He called on Nigerians to avoid politics of mediocrity but to advance nationalistic values in the quest to usher in a new dispensation in 2019. Also, a chieftain of R-APC, Baraje yesterday said Saraki has the needed leadership skills and exposures to take a shot at the nation’s presidency come 2019.
He said Saraki had stepped down for the immediate past president, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan in 2011 and President Muhammad Buhari in 2015. According to him, his plan to vie for the number one seat of the country should deserve the support of right-thinking Nigerians in view of the division the current administration has plugged the country into since its assumption of leadership of the country in 2015. Baraje who spoke with journalists in Ilorin, Kwara state capital yesterday on the state of the country on the sideline of the graduation ceremony of the students of Baraje Institute of Arabic Studies, Ilorin, also cautioned those agitating for his impeachment as Senate president saying that, “his election as number three man in the country was ordained by God.”