NEWS ANALYSIS Olawale Olaleye It suffices to say that the defection fever, which recently hit the two major political parties, is yet to subside. Importantly, what appears to be happening now is that whatever ‘Party A’ loses in a certain area is gained back by ‘Party B’ in other places, thus, escalating the level of uncertainty that has enveloped the already fluid, but tension-soaked space. With the pending defection of a former governor of Delta State, Emmanuel Uduaghan, it is trite to say the last is yet to be seen or heard about the defection bug, which ultimately is being driven by individual ambitions. It goes without saying that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has lost grounds in the Middle Belt and other parts of the North-central. The defection of governors of Benue, Kwara and Sokoto states along with a significant number of Senators, including the Senate President, Bukola Saraki and 36 House of Representatives members to the PDP effectively reshaped the balance of power between the ruling APC and the opposition party, PDP. But it appears what the APC lost in the North-central and part of North-west, it is gaining with its inroad in the South-south, snatching former Minority Leader, Godswil Akpabio. And now, barring any unforeseen circumstances, former Governor Uduaghan is joining him in the APC either for reason of ambition or underlining misgivings within the PDP in Delta state. Interestingly, all is not equally well in the PDP. Although the party has had some good times celebrating the defections into its fold, it is not true that it was not badly hit by the defection of someone like a former governor of Akwa Ibom State, Godswill Akpabio, who, as a PDP top shot, was a poster boy. In the midst of this convolution, one thing is clear: the equation is still very fluid and the chances do not weigh unevenly on either of the sides. The import of this is that even the weight of incumbency is not a fate-changing factor in next year’s election, because the dynamics are quite different and the issues of campaign would be up for debate on their own. Thus, basically, the safest assumption is to infer that the two major parties are still running neck-and-neck, a situation that could naturally create opening for an underdog. But as it currently stands, the two parties, APC and PDP, are the issues of 2019. Some parts of the North-west are also in this league. From Kano to Kaduna and Sokoto, the level of defection that has been witnessed exposes dispositional failings of the ruling party and the government, such that suggests the party cannot afford to rest on its oars.