• Gov Emmanuel sacks culture and tourism commissioner Okon Bassey in Uyo
The Senate Minority Leader, Senator Godswill Akpabio has resigned his position in the Senate.
This development is coming as the Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel has sacked the state Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Victor Antai from the state executive council with immediate effect. Akpabio’s resignation was contained in a letter dated August 4, and addressed to the Deputy Senate Minority Leader, Senator Emmanuel Bwacha.
“This letter is to formally inform you of my resignation as the Senate Minority Leader with effect from August 4, 2018,” Akpabio said in the letter. The former Akwa Ibom State governor, who released the letter yesterday, thanked the Senate leadership, his colleagues, and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the opportunity given to him to lead the PDP caucus in the Senate for the past three years. Akpabio has been on the spotlight in the past few days, following his planned defection from the opposition PDP to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). He is scheduled to be formally received into the APC on Wednesday in a rally in Ikot Ekpene, Akwa Ibom state.
Akpabio, though a first-timer, was elected Senate minority leader in 2015, against known parliamentary convention where leadership positions are usually given to ranking senators. Akpabio is believed to have left the PDP as a result of his political differences with the Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Udom Emmanuel, may be responsible for his leaving the PDP. There were also speculations that the ruling APC may have used the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to force the former senate minority leader to defect to the ruling party.
Meanwhile, the Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel has sacked the state Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Victor Antai with immediate effect. The Secretary to the State Government; Dr. Emmanuel Ekuwem announced this yesterday in a statement issued in Uyo, the state capital.
According to the statement, Antai was removed from the State Executive Council following his reluctance to comply with good governance processes of the state government. With the development he has been mandated to handover to the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry before close of work today August 8, 2018.
The removal of the commissioner may not be unconnected with the planned defection of Akpabio to the APC as the former commissioner is his close ally.