Olawale Ajimotokan in Abuja Nigeria’s Franco-German Coach, Gernot Rohr, who arrived Nigeria on Tuesday evening from his extended holiday after Eagles crashed out of the 2018 World Cup in Russia, has taken his search for a quality playing turf to the Ahmadu Bello Stadium in Kaduna. Nigeria will resume the qualifying series of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations next month away to Seychelles before returning home to find a way to ameliorate the opening Match-day 1 loss to South Africa in Uyo. But yesterday, the former German defender inspected the newly-renovated Ahmadu Bello Stadium, Kaduna to find out if suitable for the Match-day 3 fixture against Libya. Rohr checked out the facilities at the Ahmadu Bello Stadium in company with NFF’s 2nd Vice President/LMC Chairman, Mallam Shehu Dikko and Super Eagles’ Team Administrator, Dayo Enebi Achor. Before the trip to Kaduna, NFF officials were also contemplating the newly completed Stephen Keshi Stadium in Asaba as an alternative venue for the Super Eagles in their quests to return to the summit of African football scheduled to hold in Cameroon next year. The Asaba Stadium hosted the recently concluded African Senior Athletics Championship in the Delta State capital with South Africa running away the unassailable champions. Both the Adokiye Amiesimaka Stadium in Port Harcourt and the Uyo International Stadium in Akwa Ibom were also other options, having hosted Eagles during the run-in to Russia 2018. Meanwhile, NFF’s Communication Director, Ademola Olajire, has confirmed that Rohr will on Friday release his list of invited players for the away clash with Seychelles. After hosting Libya on 10th October, the three-time African champions will play away to the Knights three days later, before flying to South Africa for the return fixture against the Bafana Bafana on 17th November. The last match of the series will see the Eagles hosting Seychelles on 22nd March 2019. In the opener to the series in June 2017, the Eagles lost 0-2 to the Bafana Bafana in Uyo.