Gboyega Akinsanmi Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode at the weekend urged speakers of the 36 houses of assembly in the federation not to allow the defection of some political leaders disrupt governance. Ambode, equally, canvassed mutual understanding between the executive and legislative arms in the federation irrespective of their party affiliations, political differences or what might have happened in the last three and half years. He gave the advice at the second quarterly general meeting of the Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures in Nigeria held at Lagos House in Alausa, Ikeja Friday night. Chaired by the Speaker of Kebbi State House of Assembly, Hon. Ismalia Kamba, the speakers convened in the country’s commercial capital to discuss issues of national importance with focus on financial autonomy and state police. Across the party lines, Ambode explained that political leaders should be reminded that the essence of politics, as enshrined in the 1999 Constitution, was to ensure the protection of lives and property and welfare of the people. In the wake of movement of people across political parties in recent times, the governor noted that speakers of the 36 state houses of assembly were in Lagos to discuss issues of national importance.
He, therefore, expressed optimism that the lawmakers would come up with further measures to deepen democracy and advance the welfare of the citizenry. As political leaders, Ambode said: “We must ensure that the electorate continues to believe and trust in the principles of equity and the rule of law. No arm of government must be a clog in the wheel of progress on the basis of partisan differences. “Irrespective of our political affiliations or what has happened, we are still here to find a common-ground to discuss national issues that relate to autonomy and that relate to state police. “That is the message that we have been sending in the last three and half years. The whole essence of us being called politicians is to be able to give service to our people. “When we do the road, bridge or the hospital, it does not ask whether you are PDP or APC; neither does it ask whether you are Igbo, Hausa or Yoruba before you can climb on the Third Mainland Bridge. “So, the whole essence is to ensure that we give back to our people. Like I always to say, there are two reasons we are in politics. These are enshrined in the 1999 Constitution. We are in it to ensure protection of lives and property and welfare of our people. “No matter what strategy or path or geographical landscape we use, what is important is that we should be able to achieve those two objectives. I believe strongly that this conference and meeting will focus on those objectives and ensure that we are able to arrive at something very lucrative to our people,” he said. He said no arm of government can exist without the other. As such, there must be collaboration and mutual understanding across party lines for effective governance to take place. Legislature is vital to sustaining democracy. “Its stability, equity and economic prosperity through the effective performance of legislative duties and oversight functions cannot be overemphasized. There is no arm of government that can exist without another. “So, it is very clear in our mind that there is need for collaboration, mutual respect and understanding across party lines for effective governance to take place,” Ambode said. He commended all legislative arms across the federation for the role they have been playing to ensure good governance and deepen democracy in the country. He congratulated the lawmakers on the newly assented law granting financial autonomy to the legislature and also the judiciary, saying the development would further guarantee the independence of the two arms of government in line with the principle of separation of powers. Before the new law was passed, Ambode said the Lagos State House of Assembly had been enjoying financial autonomy, which had been responsible for the high-capacity delivery of services by his administration since inception. He said: “As you move round our State in the course of this meeting, you will appreciate the modest achievements we have recorded as a result of the harmonious relationship that exists between the executive and the legislature in Lagos State.” Also at the conference, Speaker of Lagos State House of Assembly, Mr. Mudashiru Obasa said they were at Lagos House to inform the Governor of the fact that 36 Speakers across Nigeria were in Lagos to deliberate on key issues of national development including financial autonomy and state police. Obasa thanked he for his huge support which made the hosting of the meeting possible, as well as the harmonious atmosphere for Executive-Legislative relationship in the State. Kamba commended Ambode for the massive infrastructure renewal across the state, noting that Ambode’s name had been written in gold in the history of governance in Lagos. Kamba said: “Anywhere you are in the federation, you know the effort Ambode is making in building bridges, building roads and enhancing security. “We are aware the Governor has further bought hardware of security so that this centre of excellence will continue to live and answer its name as the centre of excellence.”