• No, we were sacked, say former aides By Mohammed Aminu in Sokoto No fewer than 252 Special Advisers and Special Assistants to the Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, yesterday announced the resignation of their appointments and resolved to remain in the All Progressives Congress(APC) rather than joining him in the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP). However, a joint statement by a former Special Adviser to the governor, Hon Umar Bature; former SSA, Media, Mustafa Shehu; former SSA, Maiakwai Abubakar; former SA, Contributory Health Scheme,  Dr. Aliyu Inname, and former SA, PPP, Hon. Bashir Gidado, indicated that the former employees were relieved of their appointments by the state governor. “We write to inform the public that contrary to a statement credited to us that we resigned from the services of the Sokoto State government, all appointees were actually relieved of their appointments by His Excellency Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, in his effort to reinvigorate government operations and services. The decision was officially communicated by the Director General, Media & Public Affairs to the Governor Malam Abu Shekara. We have accepted the decision in good faith and expressed our sincere gratitude and appreciation to His Excellency for giving us the opportunity to serve our dear state in different capacities. We also look forward to future opportunities to serve.We hereby signed on behalf of 200 others,” the statement said. But Aaddressing journalists at the NUJ Press Centre in Sokoto, a former Special Assistant to the governor, Alhaji Dasuki Haske, who spoke on behalf of the special advisers and assistants, said the they resolved to resign their appointments rather than join PDP. He maintained that their resolve to remain in APC was based on their love and loyalty to President Muhammadu Buhari and Senator Aliyu Wamakko. “On behalf of 252 former special advisers and special assistants to Tambuwal, we want to inform the people of Sokoto that we have resolved to remain in APC rather than join the governor in PDP. “We also want to make it clear that we have resigned our appointments in this government. We will remain in APC and there is no going back,” he said. Haske maintained that PDP has no vision for the country and as such, they would not join a party that had failed Nigerians in the past. He averred that the 252 special advisers and assistants were solidly behind President Buhari and Wamakko. The former Special adviser said the APC is a party to beat in the state and would win the 2019 governorship elections in the state. He stated that the present administration had failed to meet the yearnings and aspirations of the people of the state. “We have been in this government in the last three years and I can confidently tell you that the expectations of the people have not been met. “The governor is preoccupied with his presidential aspiration rather than striving hard to  improve the living conditions of the people of the state,” he added. Also speaking, a former special Assistant to the Governor, Hajiya Rabi Tudunwada, said they were cajoled to join the PDP but refused to do so. “We were told by the state government to swear with the Holy Quran before we can get our monthly salaries but we refused to do so. “We therefore resolved to remain loyal to our leader Senator Aliyu Wamakko and President Buhari,”she stated.