In Lagos, Terra Kulture will have its doors open untill August 20 with the sixth season of Faces and Phases exhibition. Created as a platform for artists of diverse media and techniques to showcase their works, Faces and Phases sticks to the tradition of ten artists annually. Each artist is showing five works. At a recent meeting with some of the participating artists at Terra Arena, Ade Odunfa, the foreman for the group, explained that the artists are selected from a shortlist of entries for the show. From the collective, seven are painters while three are sculptors. As it was in the previous edition, only one female artist is on board at this show. Her name is Elizabeth Ekpetorson. Born in Port Harcourt, she has honed her artistic skills at the Universal Studios of Art, Lagos. Her works at this show include, “The Gaze”, “Sobriety” and “Translucent Hope II, III and IV” with all of them made of acrylic and charcoal. Taiwo Owoyemi’s collection in this show will likely strike a familiar chord with anyone as it is reminiscent of the legendary artist, Bruce Onobrakpeya’s, which is no surprise given his background at the Harmattan workshop at Agbara-otor, Delta State. His works at the show include “Adam and Eve”, “Man and His Environment” and “Happy People”. With the still-life painter, Ismail Lawal, his full-time studio work is about to count for something. With works executed with pastel on paper, Lawal is set to show “Bonding”, “Empty Pocket” and “Playground” at Terra. Feminine as well as cultural references are at the centre of Ade Odunfa’s strokes made of acrylic on canvas. “My brush strokes look calculated. By merging several seemingly incompatible worlds into a new universe, I create works in which a fascination with the clarity of content and an uncompromising attitude towards conceptual and minimal art can be found,’’ he stated. His works include “Facing Blues’’, “Gele Dunwe” and “King’s Guard”. Also engrossed with female forms is Ifeoluwa Alade, a final year student of Fine and Applied Art at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife. His thematic preoccupation is sourced naturally from the campus life with works such as “Awaiting Results”, “…When?”, “Reflections’’ and “Apere” meaning example. Another sculptor at the show, Steve Ekpenisi boasts of a retinue of experimental sculptures developed from found objects. As a young child, he had involuntarily prepared himself for a career in art at the expense of household gadgets. His works are influenced by socio-economic realities, political climate and cultural traditions. His automobile spare part ensemble titled “Wildlife’’ is likely to steal the show. Jonathan Ikpoza holds an interesting stance in this exhibition with highly philosophical paintings made of oil and acrylic. Ikpoza, who was part of the Araism movement in art, broke through the barriers set by straitjacketed styles to express himself on issues of humanity. His works are titled, “Pure Soul I, II and III”, “Iroro 22”, amongst others. Titus Osikoya delves into abstract paintings at this show to articulate certain concepts and moods of life using acrylic on canvas. Though not a full-time studio artist, his creative other shines through his pieces such as “Lair of Composure”, “Sacrifice for Tomorrow” and “Abandonment”. A minimalist approach is sought by Dudu Emmanuel in his visual narratives which offers insight to socio-cultural debates as shown in works such as “Triumph of Peace’’, “Defined Hands’’ and “What’s the colour of your love.’’
Kukoyi Olusola’s pieces are cultural statements without doubt. Drawing upon contemporary social order and African traditional culture and institution, he reclaims his position as a metal-inspired sculptor with “Omidan”, “Agbagba Meta” and “The Oath”.