Tade Fayomi, a former Vice President in the Asset Management Division of Goldman Sachs who is planning to go for a Masters in Business Administration (MBA) in INSEAD Business School, explains to Funmi Ogundare why it is imperative for students to constantly learn new things and leverage on their network to be successful in life At a time when most of her mates are probably planning to be married or just thinking of chatting a career path for themselves , Ms Tade Fayomi, 29, had at a very young age knew what she wanted in life. Straight from the university, she joined Goldman Sachs, a leading global investment banking, securities and investment management firm with international offices worldwide. She worked there for eight years during which she learnt the rudiments of doing business and rose to the ranks of Analyst to Senior analyst, and Vice President while being moved to work in the organisation’s London, New York, Japan, Singapore and Dubai offices. In May this year, while she was in the Dubai office, she decided to resign from the firm to pursue a Masters in Business Administration (MBA) at INSEAD Business School, Funtableu Campus. She spent summer in Lagos, getting to know how to do business in Nigeria, reconnecting with her network; comprising old school and work friends and getting acquainted with the market. In an interview with THISDAY, she talks about what it takes to get an MBA, saying, “It depends on the school that is very competitive and the process is really demanding. It could take you up to a year to put it together. Depending on the school, you are going to do your GMAT exam which could be quite challenging and you see that all the schools have their average GMAT. “They may not specify on their website. People do it quite a few times to get it right. They also want a mix of someone who already knows what he wants and a leader who can manage people. “It is not everybody that can manage people and have that skill set. That is what they can teach you and do with different case studies, such that when you are taken to a new country, in five years time, you know what you can do. So they look out for the leadership and entrepreneur skills and your ability to grow businesses. On how getting an MBA will transform business education and management practice, she said it is about utilising one’s skills to manage different minds of individuals at different sector and different situations. “It is not just about managing people because there are different unit with different individuals at different sectors and different situations. I learnt on the job not as a manager but I think I grew and I have to work with different teams and different stages in their different circle. I had different teams in the UK, Singapore and Dubai in the Middle East. But now I think about it from the angle of the classroom and they are all doing an MBA with other people in the classroom working on their businesses. “That is really different and I know that I when I go to a top school for my MBA, I will be able to learn from experts who have done so well in their industry and have become professionals. So from learning from them and establishing that network, I now come to Nigeria. There are about 500 people in my class. “It is a super diverse class, no one country is more than five percent of the class . we have people from Turkey, Taiwan, such that if I go into fashion for instance, my classmate who is from Turkey knows where I can get cheap fabric . That is what I want to have; the network because that is what you are paying for.” She said getting an MBA will add a lot of value to one’s career development, noting, “First from the academic perspective, it is a must thing to do. There are many jobs out there , you can’t even apply for them if you dont have an MBA, secondly, it is just the opportunity to learn so much especially if you have been working in one industry. “For many people that I know who are in my class, it is an opportunity for you to learn a lot more and see the skills you want to acquire. From the employers perspective , managers will see that you went to a really good school to get an MBA.” On what it takes to manage people with leadership skills , Fayomi said, “Good managers are people who genuinely want to learn to succeed. You need to know your strength and weaknesses and what you need to work on. If you are scoring a B, you are likely to be super successful, but if you are scoring a D, you may never get to win. You must be doing great with communication and doing presentations. People who have been managers know their strengths and they ran with it.” With her experience, the former vice president said it will impact the socioeconomic development of the country and the education sector adding, “More are more people are going abroad to get this management experience, that could mean more and more business schools being established in Nigeria. “With my experience it is difficult to say, but it all boils down to what I want to do after school. I definitely want to have a positive impact in Nigeria and at this point am just thinking to myself that the best way to do that is to work with businesses and help them to grow and work with women entrepreneurs. If you look at our culture, there are many other options. “Women have lots of access to capitals if you look at the statistics, women have access to networking and that is the kind of thing I want to do, that is the kind of impact I want to create, and see how these women do businesses that have been running for a couple of years and you just need that introduction and determination and actually grow. “Usually if you give money to the woman, it means more to the economy than if you give it to the man. That is the kind of thing I am passionate about.” She advised the youths on skills needed to succeed saying, “Doing business has to do with being persistent, recognising what you want and so your marketing, and thinking about new creative ways to engage with clients and customers. One of those things I learnt at Goldman Sachs is strategy and think of ways to engage with people and have something impactful to convince them with . “They have to listen to it. You must be able to use your network and reach out to different people and leverage on that. I reached out to my classmates who are into businesses. All of our classmates are our first customers. You also have to constantly learn new things through conferences and empower yourself . In Nigeria, people take a lot of shortcut which harm their businesses.”