Sergio Aguero scored both Manchester City goals as the Premier League champions beat Chelsea to win the Community Shield on a sweltering Sunday afternoon at Wembley. Aguero’s first – his 200th goal for the club – came after 13 minutes, when he collected the ball on the edge of the area after Phil Foden surged forward, and fired into the bottom corner. His second came after the break, when he latched on to Bernardo Silva’s pass and beat Willy Caballero with another precise low finish. Chelsea, less than a month into Maurizio Sarri’s reign as manager, lacked a presence in attack and managed only one shot on target, a long-range strike by 17-year-old Callum Hudson-Odoi which Claudio Bravo fumbled to safety. Some of their lethargy going forward could be put down to the heat, which made it difficult for both sides to sustain any sort of tempo. Players were allowed water breaks during the game and some City players sitting on the bench had wet towels over their heads to try to protect them from the intensity of the sunshine. Sarri was without his best forward player, with Eden Hazard due back for post-World Cup pre-season training on Monday amid speculation Real Madrid want to sign him. City, who won last year’s title by 19 points, were also without some of their stars – with Kevin de Bruyne, Raheem Sterling and David Silva all absent. But they produced a controlled and efficient performance to secure their third piece of silverware in the past six months. The worry for the rest of the Premier League is they have the appetite for more. City boss Pep Guardiola was able to hand a start to new £60m forward Riyad Mahrez but, in the absence of De Bruyne and David Silva, it was Foden and Bernardo Silva who caught the eye. Operating on either side of Fernandinho, as steady as ever at the base of City’s midfield, they looked to spring forward at every opportunity. Foden did exactly that to set up Aguero’s opener, latching on to a pass from Aymeric Laporte and taking full advantage as the Chelsea defence backed off. It was a similar story when Silva provided the assist from which Aguero extended City’s lead in another lightning break in which the ball travelled from the edge of City’s box into the Chelsea net in a matter of seconds. Both players were utilised further forward last season, but showed they could have a part to play in a deeper role in the coming campaign. Aguero, given the nod over Gabriel Jesus, who stayed on the bench, was as deadly as ever up front and had City converted one of a flurry of late chances, the scoreline would have been even more resounding. Sarri’s first competitive game in charge of Chelsea is at Huddersfield on Saturday. Before then, the Blues will play a friendly against French side Lyon at Stamford Bridge on Tuesday. City will begin the defence of their Premier League crown with a trip to Arsenal next Sunday. 