Omololu Ogunmade in Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari Thursday assured the supporters of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bauchi State not to be perturbed by the recent gale of defections from the party, saying “God will continue to fish out the bad eggs among us’” as the 2019 general election approaches. According to a statement by his spokesman, Mr. Femi Adesina, Buhari also said his administration would continue to work hard to surpass its campaign promises for a better Nigeria. Adesina said the president spoke at the commencement of the campaign rally for the Bauchi South senatorial district bye-elections and the formal presentation of APC candidate, Hon. Gumau Lawal Yahaya, for the August 11 poll. According to him, Buhari told the rally that the APC-led government had remained faithful in implementing its campaign promises of improving the economy, securing the country, and fighting corruption. He quoted him as saying “the work we are doing is because of God, our country and you. I want to inform you that the knowledge we have garnered over the years, we won’t allow you to be cheated. ‘‘Like we promised, what will determine a good future for the country are security, strong economy and to stop corruption. We campaigned on these things, you voted for us and we will never forget.” Adesina who further said the president’s remarks were accompanied by a thunderous applause by party supporters at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Stadium, Bauchi, said he endorsed the APC candidate for the senatorial bye-election. He added that the president, who was accompanied by the party Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, governors of Bauchi, Plateau, Kano and Imo States, and other party officials, added that “we have confidence in him and we trust him.” The statement added: “He, therefore, urged the people of Bauchi South senatorial district to vote Hon. Yahaya in the upcoming election. “The president also thanked the people of the state for defying the heavy rainfall and coming out en masse to welcome him and show solidarity to the party’s candidate in the Senatorial election.”