Ndubuisi Francis in Abuja The National Pension Commission (PenCom) has commenced the verification and enrolment of employees in the service of the federal government who are due to retire between January and December, 2019. The exercise is for employees who are due to retire next year by virtue of the attainment of 60 years of age or 35 years in service (whichever is earlier), or 65 years by age for employees of tertiary institutions or 70 years for professors. Already, over 2,700 federal civil servants from the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and Niger State had commenced their verification and enrolment exercise with Pencom in Abuja. The exercise is part of the second phase of the nationwide programme which is also ongoing in two other centres in Lagos and Ibadan. The first phase had already been concluded in 12 other centres across the nation. The purpose of the exercise was to facilitate the payment of their retirement benefits. The physical enrolment also covered those who have already retired but were yet to be enrolled. PenCom, in a statement by its Head, Corporate Communications Department, Peter Aghahowa said: “Employees were requested to attend the enrolment exercise with the originals and copies of their letters of appointment, evidence of transfer of service and acceptance (where applicable), birth certificate/declaration of age, promotion letter and pay slip indicating grade level and step as at June, 2004.” Others are promotion letter and pay slip indicating grade level and step as at January, 2007, promotion letter and pay slip indicating grade level and step as at July, 2010, promotion letter and pay slip indicating grade level and step as at December, 2013. Also required for the enrolment exercise include letter of introduction from the ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs), staff identity card, letter/evidence of retirement (where applicable), letter of indemnity from the MDA. “The prospective retirees are also requested to come with evidence of registration with a Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) indicating Retirement Savings Accounts (RSA) Personal Identification Number (PIN). To ensure a successful and hitch-free exercise, the Commission requires the presence of at least, one Pension Desk Officer (PDO) from each MDA in order to assist in identifying potential retirees as well as confirm the authenticity of the documents presented by the employees. “Potential retirees who are medically unfit are exempted from the exercise but the Commission advises their Pension Desk Officers to come with their documents and a letter from a suitably qualified physician or medical board certifying that the affected employees are not physically or mentally capable of carrying out the functions of his/her office or attend the verification exercise. “The commission advised all the prospective FG retirees to take part in the exercise as it is a precondition for the payment of their retirement benefits. The exercise in Abuja is taking place between July 30, and August 17, 2018,” the statement said.