Stanbic IBTC Group has announced its sponsorship of the Higher Institutions Football League (HIFL), which kicked off last Wednesday in various centres across the country. Stanbic IBTC said the sponsorship is in tandem with the company’s determination to help grow and develop a vibrant and productive youth population. According to Stanbic IBTC, their involvement is equally informed by the need to foster unity among the youth, the future leaders, and development of sports as well as the economy using the HIFL platform. Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, Mr. Yinka Sanni, said: “We are enthusiastic about our sponsorship of the university league. The sponsorship is in line with our objective to engage the youth in talent-moulding and character-building initiatives and our determination to contribute to the development of sports and by extension the economy.” The organisers of the league commended Stanbic IBTC for its boldness in sponsoring the HIFL. According to them, the sponsorship will be invaluable to the success of the varsity league, even as they promised to stage the best football spectacle that will “convince our sponsors and indeed Nigerians that collegiate sport is ripe in Nigeria.” This sponsorship is the latest in a long list of youth-centric development and empowerment initiatives by Stanbic IBTC. Organised by Green White Green (GWG) Sports, the maiden edition of the league is featuring the top 16 universities from across the country. The teams will play a total of 30 games over a 14-week period to determine the winner. The draws for the league groupings were held recently. Explaining the rationale for HIFL at the draws ceremony in Lagos, CEO of the Green White Green, Alhaji Shuaibu Gara-Gombe, said the HIFL is conceived as a platform for students “to exhibit their talents to the world.” The participating universities are Obafemi Awolowo University, Delta State University, University of Benin, University of Lagos, University of Port-Harcourt, University of Agriculture Makurdi, University of Ibadan, University of Nigeria, Bayero University, University of Ilorin, University of Jos, University of Uyo, University of Maiduguri, Usman Dan Fodio University, Ahmadu Bello University, and Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University.