Sam Akpe The inner chamber of the main auditorium of the International Conference Centre wore a dark look on July 10, 2018. Two reasons accounted for this. First, the auditorium was badly lit. Second, the occupants of the hall on that day were dressed in black suits and black graduation gowns. All of them were about to be called to the Bar. A call to the bar is the traditional, conservatively procedural induction of fresh graduates of the Nigerian Law School into the learned fraternity of legal practitioners. It is comparable only to the inauguration of elected legislators. On July 10, a few hundreds of the freshly-minted legal minds had assembled in this hall for the ceremony, an event exclusively performed by the revered members of the Body of Benchers after certification of the graduates by the Council of Legal Education. On the dot of 3 p.m., members of the Body of Benchers, led by its chairman, walked leisurely but orderly into the inner belly of the hall where the graduates, hitherto seated rose. Not many speeches were made. At 3.24 pm, the Chairman of the Body of Benchers, asked the graduates, still standing, to put on their wigs. That was a milestone towards their confirmation as lawyers. The adornment of the wigs had an instant effect on the atmosphere; it brightened the hall a little more. For the records, the graduates were left standing for 86 minutes throughout the ceremony. From the time members of the Body of Benchers entered the hall; they stood still until the chairman went to deliver his address and casually asked them to take their seats. Describing law practice as “the most noble of all professions,” he declared to the delight of the graduates: “from this day onward, I shall address you as my learned friends.” Standing in that crowd of joyful baby lawyers and savouring the delightful atmosphere was the suave, clean-shaven retired Assistant Inspector General of Police, Ayotunde Johnson Ogunsakin. The story of his pursuit of legal education is known not to a few because of the controversy that trailed it. Known simply as Tunde by friends, the retired AIG studied history at Obafemi Awolowo University and had planned to be a diplomat until fate pushed his huge frame into police uniform. Trained in the sensitive shadowy-room of intelligence gathering, he earned a specialisation and huge reputation in financial intelligence; particularly in the money laundering business. I recall an interesting story a retired top police officer told me about Tunde. One evening in 1991, Tunde, a deputy superintendent of police, was summoned by the then Commissioner of Police in charge of Interpol, Lawal Mashi, to his office at Alagbon Close, in Lagos. A case file containing a copy of a petition was given to him to study. The petition stated in summary that the then National Electric Power Authority (NEPA) account in New York had been defrauded and a cool $21 million had developed wings and flew into a private account in Switzerland. The Swiss account was in the name of NEPA but was neither opened nor owned by NEPA. It was 5.30 pm on a Friday. The natural thing was to study the file and begin investigations on Monday. But Tunde thought otherwise. His instinct took the better part of him. He called his partner, Adamu Lafia, who is presently an assistant inspector general of police. Lafia advised that the matter be rested till Monday. Tunde, who was Lafia’s senior, disagreed. Together, they left for NEPA headquarters in Lagos. On arrival, they locked in the remnant of the account and administrative staff and started asking questions and gathering documents. This lasted till 2am on Saturday. They left NEPA office with loads of documents which they locked up at the police headquarters; and went home to catch some sleep. At about 10 am, Tunde was again summoned to the office; this time by the Commissioner of Police in charge of Criminal Investigation Bureau. He was questioned on why he should be sleeping while NEPA office was on fire. Tunde told the officer not to worry as long as the police headquarters was not on fire. What happened was that some desperate NEPA officers, fingered in the fraud, had decided to burn down the office that early morning so that the entire documents pertaining to the fraud would not be traced. Unknown to those arsonists, all the required documents had been taken to the police headquarters by Tunde and Lafia.
Just imagine what would have happened if Tunde had agreed to put off the investigation till Monday. Later, they went to the United States of America, United Kingdom and then Switzerland. The money was eventually fully recovered because one police officer did something extraordinary. At a point in his career, Tunde was head of operations at the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Offences Commission (ICPC); and at the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). At the EFCC, he worked under retired AIG Farida Waziri. He gained popularity both on the right and the wrong sides by going after big offenders of the EFCC Act. They included former state governors, top bankers, and the highly-connected serving and retired public servants previously considered to be untouchable. Often described as controversial and pretty uncompromising, both the complex nature of his job and his unrestrained passion for hard work have often created trouble for him. For instance, when it became clear that he could not be stopped from executing the functions of his office at the EFCC, some ignorant fellows came up with a tar brush. This time, it was not unconnected with his desire to go to school at old age by enrolling for a law programme at the University of Abuja. Unknown to those who alleged that he was pursuing an illegal academic programme, Tunde actually followed due process by applying and obtaining the permission of the then Inspector General of Police before embarking on the academic pursuit. As soon as this truth was published, another crisis emerged. Tunde was accused of paying two students at the University of Abuja to write a test for him. This was more scandalous and capable of not only rubbishing his impeccable records but wrapping up his stay in the police force on a sour note. His friends got worried. His bosses became cautious. His enemies gloated. Actually, two students were arrested for writing the test on Equity for Tunde on April 7, 2009. On interrogation, the two accepted that they jointly agreed that one of them should write the test for Tunde because he was absent from school and was not aware of the test. Though the students denied being sponsored to write the test; as was alleged, Tunde was still not free. However, reprieve came his way on September 2, 2010. A panel set up by the university to investigate the incident meticulously scrutinise the evidence and submitted that the two persons involved acted independently. The panel, headed by a professor of law, in its report submitted that “in view of the facts before the committee, the committee is handicapped in recommending Tunde Ogunsakin for any punishment.” Thus, Tunde was cleared of any complicity in the scandal. He was thereafter allowed to continue and complete his course of study. Today, he has become a learned gentleman. ––Akpe is a former assistant editor at the Punch