DStv and GOtv subscribers will, from 18 August, have access to matches of the Italian Serie A, one of Europe’s most prestigious leagues, which is returning to the SuperSport platform. The return of Serie A will afford football fans in Nigeria the exclusive opportunity of following reigning FIFA World Player of the Year, Portugal’s Cristiano Ronaldo, and all 380 games of Serie A on DStv and GOtv via the SuperSport channels, the only place to watch comprehensive coverage of the Premier League, La Liga, Serie A, UEFA Champions League and this season’s debut of the UEFA Nations League. Part of the excitement lined up is the debut of Ronaldo, who recently signed for Italian giants, Juventus. With the dramatic news of Ronaldo’s capture by Juventus, all eyes will be on the Italian champions and a revitalized Serie A. Ronaldo, one of the world’s most popular and expensive players will be looking to make his mark on the Italian competition and further build his claim as one of the greatest players of all time. On the commencement of the Italian Serie A, General Manager, Sales and Marketing MultiChoice Nigeria, Martin Mabutho, said: “Building on the euphoria of the World Cup, we are excited to deliver world-class football to fans wherever they watch, whether on television or on digital platforms. “This season we are delivering even more value to our DStv and GOtv customers. With Cristiano Ronaldo announcing his transfer to Juventus we are thrilled to be adding Serie A along with the new UEFA Nations League to our already comprehensive football coverage.” In addition to the news of the Serie A return, Multichoice will also be introducing more live football from other leagues to the DStv Access and Family as well as GOtv Plus and Max bouquets. DStv Access and GOtv Plus customers, will now have access to over 220 live games per season, with two games each from the Premier League, La Liga, and Serie A. The home of Premier League on DStv will be SuperSport 3 where DStv Compact customers and above will have access to the best matches of each round. GOtv Max and Plus, as well as DStv Access and Family customers will have access to twice the number of live Premier League matches as last season. DStv subscribers from Family to Premium will have access to all LaLiga games while DStv Access viewers will be able to watch LaLiga with a second game per week being added to the package.