Mohamed Salah’s 23rd-minute strike proved to be the difference as Liverpool moved to the top of the Premier League with a hard-fought 1-0 victory over Brighton at Anfield. Salah scored the only goal of the game – his 29th in 29 appearances for Liverpool at Anfield in all competitions – side-footing a first-time effort past Mat Ryan in the first half. Jurgen Klopp’s side were far from their best and they had Alisson to thank late on when he pushed Pascal Gross’ header past the post, but they held to maintain a 16-month undefeated league run at home and secure their best start to a Premier League season in five years. Liverpool, who were unbeaten in each of their last 22 Premier League games before the game, started in confident fashion. Salah combined with Sadio Mane, who failed to hit the target with an effort from the edge of the penalty area. Brighton were trying to stay compact but they were struggling to keep the hosts at bay. Roberto Firmino made an excellent run to the near post to meet Andrew Robertson’s cross. The Brazil international made good contact with his header but he could not beat Ryan, who clawed the ball away from goal. The hosts continued to pile the pressure on and Trent Alexander-Arnold was the next to go close, clipping the crossbar with a free-kick and they finally made the breakthrough in the 23rd minute through Salah. There were two changes for Brighton from their win over Manchester United as Leon Balogun and Yves Bissouma came into the side to make their first Premier League starts in place of Lewis Dunk and Pascal Gross. Liverpool have won their last six matches against Brighton in all competitions, scoring 21 goals and conceding just five. Of the 17 teams to play in the Premier League both last season and this season, Brighton have won the fewest points in their away games (11). Liverpool have kept 11 clean sheets in the Premier League in their 18 games since Virgil van Dijk’s debut in January 2018, more than any other side in that period. Since the start of last season, Liverpool’s Mohamed Salah has been directly involved in 45 Premier League goals, (34 goals, 11 assists), 12 more than any other player in this period. Under Jurgen Klopp, Roberto Firmino has had a hand in 59 Premier League goals (36 goals, 23 assists), 14 more than any other Liverpool player.