Arsenal Chief Executive Ivan Gazidis is considering taking a lucrative offer tabled by AC Milan. Gazidis, who became CEO at Arsenal in 2009 and is now tasked with the day-to-day running of the club, was one of the key players in appointing new boss Unai Emery. However, according to UK’s  The Telegraph, his nearly 10-year tenure at the Gunners looks to be in doubt as he mulls over a deal which could earn him £3.6million per year at the San Siro – a £1m increase on his current salary. The Italian giants want Gazidis to respond by the start of next month, hoping a promise of more money and overseeing a club overhaul will be enough to persuade him to make the switch. Arsenal were expecting the 53-year-old to accept a new challenge in Serie A, but it is understood he is yet to make a decision on his future.
Gazidis remains one of the most well-paid executives in the Premier League, although his salary dropped by around £50,000 between 2016 and 2017. He played a major role in appointing Emery following Arsene Wenger’s departure earlier this year and now enjoys greater control at the Emirates Stadium. However, the club’s strict transfer and wage budget could scupper plans to take on Manchester City and challenge for the title once again. AC Milan’s new American owners, Elliott Management, have ambitions to take on Juventus, Napoli, Roma and rivals Inter at the top of Italian football. They hope Gazidis will use almost a decade of experience in England’s top-flight to help them bridge the gap after finishing sixth last season. Meanwhile, the Gunners who lost their second game of the new season to Chelsea at the weekend are getting edgy. Lucas Torreira was reportedly involved in a fiery confrontation with Gunners coach Juan Carlos Carcedo on Sunday. The Gunners lost 3-2 to Chelsea at Stamford Bridge, meaning they are yet to register a single Premier League point so far this season. Reports out of England claimed that the new Arsenal coach, who arrived at the Emirates with Unai Emery, took issue with Torreira’s failure to track Marcos Alonso for Chelsea’s winning goal. Torreira who didn’t find the accusation funny was said to have snapped back, leading to the shouting match. Jack Wilshere who was forced out of Arsenal is hoping to prove Unai Emery was wrong to end his Arsenal career when he makes an emotional return to the Emirates Stadium with West Ham this weekend. The England international was expected to sign a new long-term contract earlier this year, but Arsenal’s decision to replace Arsene Wenger with Emery changed the picture dramatically. Wilshere was told he was unlikely to feature regularly in the Spaniard’s starting XI following the signings of Lucas Torreira and Matteo Guendouzi and moved across the capital. Like Arsenal, West Ham head into Saturday’s derby having failed to register a point in their opening two matches of the new season and Wilshere is out to prove a point against his former employers. “I’ve got to try and block all the emotion out,’ Wilshere told the club’s match-day programme for Saturday’s game against Bournemouth. 