A grassroots soccer coach in Agege, Lagos, Mr Chinedu Johnson, has thrown his weight behind the recently launched Chivita’s C’mon Get Active campaign aimed at making Nigerians to develop healthy livestyle. The C’mon Get Active campaign represents a shift for consumers like himself who are desirous of a healthy beverage to support their daily activities without compromise on great taste, convenience and enhanced nourishment. on great taste, convenience and enhanced nourishment. “As a soccer coach, I have had the privilege of supervising numerous young people through daily fitness regimen. They are passionate about achieving their fitness goals and wellness through active health as well as enhanced nourishment from Chivita Active that supports to keep them focused,” he narrated. Another Nigerian very much interested in healthy lifestyle, Mrs. Adewunmi Akintola, a marketing executive, a long walk in the morning or evening after work to a few light indoor exercises, are part of her daily regimen to stay healthy. She therefore urged more people to adopt active lifestyle habits that are beneficial and convenient. “With the daily physical exertion for wellness comes nourishment from Chivita Active. The C’mon Get Active campaign has made the brand an easy recall for me and my friends as we nudge each other on our amazing journey of wellness,” she added. Speaking on the campaign, Chi Limited’s Marketing Director, Mr. Probal Bhattacharya, explained that the objective of Chivita Active’s C’mon Get Active campaign to challenge consumers to say yes to active health was being achieved based on numerous positive consumer feedbacks received. “We are still observing the trends and are excited by the responses so far. The C’mon Get Active campaign would continue to raise awareness and motivate, as the community of consumers who have voted for wellness through active health continues to grow,” he stressed. Few months after Chivita Active launched its new campaign, C’mon Get Active, to position the brand as an enabler for a healthy active life, the campaign is already inspiring a new social movement for consumers who are voting for active health by easily integrating Chivita Active into their daily routine as a partner in their journey for improved wellness and healthy lifestyle. The Chivita Active C’mon Get Active campaign, which is being driven across multiple engagement platforms is very relatable to consumers because it is creative, simple and straight to the point in delivering key messages of wholesome nourishment, active health and wellness. Across Nigeria, #C’monGetActive continues to trend in the digital space offering consumers an opportunity to share their active health routine story and encourage one another. Analysts have commended the campaign for leveraging on the brand’s enabling role for regular healthy lifestyle activities to drive consumer preference and purchase intentions. They contend that the campaign reflects deep insights on the shift in consumption pattern as a result of growing social consciousness of wellness through active health, and Chivita Active’s brand purpose resonates with consumers who are already thinking in that direction.