Kuni Tyessi, Abuja A student of Noble Hall Leadership Academy for Girls, Fatima Danjuma, has received a scholarship from her school to study in any university of her choice for her exemplary behaviour during the period of her study.. While announcing the scholarship during its graduation ceremony, a member of the board, Dr. Mairo Mandara, said the school strived to take the training of their students seriously , not just in learning but in character, adding that Danjuma, who was among the 16 students graduating, has shown that the school was on right track. Mandara who was also the Guest Speaker at the programme, promised to mentor Danjuma till she graduates. In her remarks, the Director, Mrs Maryam Duba who expressed excitement about the graduation of her students, recalled with sadness, a student, Aisha Kollore, who would have been among the graduands but died after being diagnosed with cancer of the blood. “She lived a life worthy of emulation. Even after being diagnosed, she was strong. She became a strong advocate against cancer. She was an inspiration for both young and old,” she said. Another guest speaker and Deputy Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, Mrs. Aisha Ahmad, advised the graduating students to open themselves to opportunities as they stepped into the world, while urging them to work hard and never give up until they achieve their goals. She encouraged them to take full advantage of the internet and technology available to them to broaden their knowledge, saying that they have to be smarter than their smart phones as whatever they put out on the social media, can make or mar their image. The Principal of the school, Elaine Breen, said the girls have been taught to believe in their abilities, rely in their honesty, integrity and self-belief and urge them as they go out for further studies, to always remember that nothing worthwhile comes without effort, tears, planning, sheer hard work and determination. “Our leaders here at Nobel Hall are taught to get up when they are knocked down, to stand up for what they believe, to turn up when they would rather be doing something else. These are qualities of true leaders,” she said. The Board Chairman, Alhaji Mouftah Ahmed whose address was read by former UN representative, Ambassador Usman Sarki, told the students that the certificate they have received from the school was a ticket for them to overcome all challenges, and urged them never to forget of forgo their pursuit for excellence.