David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka Ahead of the 2019 General election, the Board of Trustees (BOT) of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) at the weekend disclosed the plan to resolved to pick its presidential candidate from the North. The party rejected the decision to adopt President Muhammadu Buhari as its presidential candidate, noting that its decision was founded on sound political principles, values, and ideology, The party disclosed the decision after a critical deliberation in Awka, Anambra State, saying it had zoned the presidential candidacy to the north while the vice presidential candidate would be of South-east extraction. In a communiqué it issued after the meeting, the party noted that the meeting was held at the instance of Governor Willie Obiano, who is the party’s National Leader and BoT Chairman. The communiqué stated that the board members deliberated on the future of the party with specific attention given to the upcoming general election and the options facing the party. After the meeting, the Secretary of the Board of Trustees, Alhaji Sani Shinkafi said after due considerations based on popular demand by party members, the party resolved “to zone its presidential candidacy to the north and the vice presidential Candidate to the South-east.” Shinkafi noted that with the goings on in the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), APGA would present a viable option for Nigerians and solution to the sociopolitical problems the nation is presently facing. He explained that the party “is not contesting the presidential election for sake of notice but aside its right to contest every political position, the party is set to field qualified candidates to fly its flag and will also evolve strategies that will enable the party achieve the ambition of forming a central government in 2019.” The party had besides 2003 and 2007 when it fielded the founder of the Party, late Biafra Warlord, Dim Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu adopted former President Goodluck Jonathan in 2011 and 2015, an action which THISDAY learnt the party still regrets to date. A source within the party however revealed to THISDAY that the party was targeting a particular presidential aspirant from the north, who he described as a heavy weight politician.
“The aspirant is not in APGA for now, he is in another party, but it is hoped that he would move to APGA if he is unable to secure the ticket of his current party.” The source said APGA had made initial plans to adopt President Buhari as its candidate, and as payback for letting last year’s governorship election result which Obiano won to stand, despite attempts by APC stalwarts to rig their candidate in. However, the party rescinded the decision after weighing Buhari’s growing unpopularity, especially in the southeast, where APGA is mostly considered as an Igbo party.