She is talented, well-endowed in all facets of feminine gorgeousness. Screen diva, Caroline Danjuma is the star about town and buzzing with her clothing line. Ferdinand Ekechukwu takes a look at her latest drive Caroline Danjuma, no doubt, is a beautiful woman by common impost. Elegant, pretty, gorgeous, sexy, sultry, name it, she’s got all ticked with the right essentials. Little wonder the actress interests men of the rich nouveau and famous of the society and occasionally makes the subject of discussions at the table of high society gatherings. On and off the screen, Caroline is a diva. Though there seems to be all about the Nollywood celebrity, the story of Caroline Danjuma is such that reads afresh with the gist of her personal life, career, and relationship occupying copious position in public domain. That she often looks good in whatever piece of outfit given to her comes handy and makes for designers’ delight. Just of recent, she started promoting her clothing line. On August 9, she shared breathtaking pictures of herself looking fabulous in a new photo shoot to promote the clothing line and got social media talking about her new enterprise. In a post on Instagram, the 38-year-old struck different poses in several colourful dresses as part of a promotion for the clothing line. A photo of herself at an event wearing a black outfit which revealed beneath got her followers reacting online in both acceptance and disdain. The mother of three – two boys and a girl – is acclaimed one of the prettiest actresses to have ever graced Nigeria’s entertainment scene. Now a mother of four, following her recent adoption of a baby girl, is in the league of young celebrity divorcees.
Born Caroline Ekanem, to a Scottish father and a Nigerian mother, the natural light complexioned star is one of the richest and most influential actresses in Nigeria. At the height of her fame, she got married to a much older Nigerian billionaire Musa Danjuma, the younger brother of Theophilus Danjuma, in 2007. The union produced three children; two boys and a girl. The marriage to the Danjuma however, caused her to take a break from her calling. Interestingly the marriage sure looked a sure deal until it broke-up as rumours of infidelity from both quarters began to trickle in. At the peak of her marital crisis, she was reported to have said among other things that “. . . Age was nothing but a number. Ever since I got married it has been one story or the other and I have been extremely quiet and tolerant irrespective of the negative reputation it brought to my name (the price I had to pay). I never expected a perfect man and I for one knew that all men cheat (in the real world) but there are limits to everything. I took a lot because I believe when you truly love someone you should love their flaws first before their beautiful side. “I truly love my husband; he added so much value to my life. Nothing in life comes easy; sometimes we go through fire and storm to mold us into what God has truly destined for us to be. One would think I lost a lot but, no, I gained more. “Marriage, they say, is the best institution of life and certainly, I could rate mine as Harvard of marriage. Every single storm I went through only made me see strength in me I never knew I had.”
Caroline is a lady up about town and seems to have moved on, even from the death of her lover, Tagbo Umeike, and the confrontation she had with music star Davido. Early in her career, Caroline was a household name in the industry as she starred in several notable Nollywood movies and a video vixen. She made her screen debut in 2004, featuring in Chico Ejiro’s popular films, first with the movie Deadly Kiss following her introduction to the movie director by veteran actress Rita Dominic.
That became the beginning of a blossoming career as she later starred in Missing Angel, The Captor, Foreign Affairs, Real Love, The Twist, A Second Time and The Beast and The Angel. After a hiatus from the movie scene, she came back to star in the romantic movie Stalker, which had Jim Iyke and Nse Ikpe-Etim as co-stars.