Rebecca Ejifoma The Lagos State Police Command has alleged that an angry mob in Ifako Ijaiye, Ogba, Wednesday killed a policeman, Sergent Esiabor Collins, and vandalised a patrol car for unknown reasons. According to the Police spokesman, CSP Chike Oti, the incident occurred at 11am or thereabout at College Road, Ifako Ijaiye, Ogba, Lagos. The rampaging mob were alleged to have attacked and killed the Sergeant at a black spot location. “The mob attacked the police patrol team stationed for a yet-to-be-determined reason. In the process, Sergeant Esiabor with service number 260326, was attacked and killed. Also, they vandalised the patrol vehicle,” he added. According to Oti, preliminary investigation into the incident revealed that the mob, mainly youths, had earlier in the morning gone to Area ‘G’ Command, Ogba with the intention to overrun the police formation and commit arson but found it impregnable. The spokesman added: “However, the Area Commander in-charge spoke to them, promising to cause an investigation into their grievances which bordered on the death of a youth who allegedly died today August 29 this year, two weeks after an alleged encounter with some policemen.” He further assured the public that the police authorities in the state were unaware of any encounter with the deceased as no formal complaint was received to that effect. Meanwhile, the state Commissioner of Police Imohimi Edgal has warned that the penchant to take laws into own hands by some people, who easily constitute themselves into a mob, was becoming worrisome to say the least. “The Command wishes to state that the deceased officer and indeed the entire patrol team had the option of defending themselves with their firearms but chose restraint despite provocation. Unfortunately, Sgt. Collins paid the supreme price,” the CP decried. Edgal, therefore, stated that policemen in the state had on several occasions shown restraint in the face of provocative actions. He, however, urged parents to warn their children to refrain from such acts, which according to him, may lead to a breach of the peace and unnecessary bloodletting.