By Ugo Aliogo In a bid to promote innovation and encourage home grown solutions, a platform known as Mbari Uno has been launched. The platform educates and develops sustainable solutions committed to driving a Sub- Saharan African design industry. Speaking at the launch in Lagos recently, the Co-founder, Mbari Uno, Chuma Anagbado, said the platform was borne out of the need to create a platform that would engender collaborations among designers, design enthusiasts, sponsors, manufacturers, industries and the public. He also said building on the pillars of design research, education and development, the platform would teach and showcase design, profile designers and chronicle design firms. According to him, it would also create great design work, establish and promote the design industry and document the design discipline in Nigeria and Sub-Saharan Africa. “In the absence of a holistic directory for the design industry in Nigeria with little local reference or examples to benchmark its design practice, the visionaries Chuma Anagbado and Obinali Okoli birthed Mbari Uno which literally translates to a ‘House of Collaboration’ to share ideas and develop indigenous solutions among design aficionados, government and stakeholders.” Anagbado, further stated the platform was set to attract design patrons, consultant and investors to help emerging designers gain access to innovative spaces, trainings, professional assistance, and any other service that would fast track them to success. He noted that, “The idea is to continually chronicle and publish the profiles of both formal and informal trained design professionals, firms, publications, events, schools, designs clusters and routinely publish insights, views, opinions, solutions, to position among others on design-based issues using the media. “We want to conceive, design and develop frameworks that will promote the culture of probing, innovation, collaboration and sustainable engagements that seek to improve the quality of life of the common man. “Mbari Uno is poised to become a ‘go-to hub’ for all things design, a platform that will drive visible human capital development and position Nigeria as a leading design nation in Africa as well as build an increase in the number of successful design startupsoriginating from Sub-Saharan Africa. “The vision of Mbari Uno is to establish a framework for the creation of design hubs across various cities in Sub-Saharan Africa, where host communities will engage in prototyping ideas and designing solutions that will benefit them.” Send