Bennett Oghifo Lifemate, a household marketing company, has cut in half the price of its products at the ongoing Trade Fair in Abeokuta, Ogun State.
In addition to this is a special prize the company is giving to prospective buyers of its products during the upcoming Eid El Mubarak. The company, which moves its business round major Nigerian cities for trade exhibitions, is in Abeokuta where its tagline is “2018 Lifemate Abeokuta Trade Fair”. The Abeokuta exhibition took off this week on 17th August and will run till 31st of August. “As usual, as with trade exhibitions, all products on display come with 50% discount during the fair,” said Dereek Dai, the Managing Director of Lifemate Nigeria Limited. “Lifemate continues to link businesses in Nigeria and provide supports for businesses in in urban centers.” Lifemate Nigeria Limited is committed to setting the pace in the economic and social development for other companies to follow in Nigeria to follow.
Dereek Dai said this in Lagos while unveiling series of exciting packages to celebrate Eid El Mubarak, adding that the company in its commitment to unemployment reduction, currently had over three thousand employees on its payroll. “In the last 18 years the company since its entry into the Nigerian market has not looked back in the development and manufacture of high quality home, office and outdoor furniture; sanitary wares; kitchen cabinets, massage chairs and other interior décor materials,” he said. The Ileya promo from the stable of the company currently promises to give out big ram to customers that purchase furniture worth N2 million, while customers that purchase products worth N1 million stand to get one bag of rice free. The 55% discounts on all its products are mouthwatering and careful design to make life better for Nigerians in line with its pay off “Lifemate….. make your life better”. He said, “Lifemate in line with its policy of easing access to its products has showrooms in Oregun, Lekki and shoprite in Ikeja all in Lagos. Other showrooms are in Abuja, Port Harcourt, Ibadan and Warri.”