The Arewa Youth Forum saturday honoured Enugu State Governor, Mr. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi an award of excellence for ensuring peace and good governance in the state. The forum, conferred the award on him during a rally organised by the Enugu State Youth Parliament in Enugu, where the governor was endorsed for a second term in office. After giving the award, the leader of AYF, Alhaji Ibrahim Gambo described Ugwuanyi as a peace-loving leader, who deserved to be honoured by his people and beyond. Gambo commended the Enugu Youth Parliament for organising a rally “to endorse Ugwuanyi. We are preparing him for 2023.” He said Ugwuanyi’s peaceful disposition “is a boost towards national integration. This dream of our founding father can only be fully achieved through peaceful co-existence irrespective of our ethnic nationalities, cultural and religious differences. “Let me acknowledge the presence of other Arewa and Nigerians here present to witness this important event taking place in the state. I am here to present this award to Governor Ugwuanyi.” The Enugu State Youth Parliament in Enugu thus endorsed Ugwuanyi, saying they were impressed with the kind of peace the state witnessed under his administration and his commitment to the task of addressing the problems of the state. The Clerk of the parliament, Mr. Okechukwu Ani commended the governor for his achievement in rural and urban areas with the poor federal allocation coming to the state since the inception of his administration. He also commended Ugwuanyi for other people-oriented programmes of his administration that had impacted positively on the lives of the citizens of the state, expressing delight at the level of job creation for the youth by the state government. He said the parliament and its members across the states “have unanimously agreed from the wards, local government and state levels that we will continue to use every necessary effort to support your administration in 2019.” Ugwuanyi was represented by his Special Adviser on Special Duties, Mr. Uwakwe Azikiwe. He thanked the association and the Arewa Youth Forum for the honour, reiterated his commitment to the welfare of the youth as future leaders.