The Nigeria Rugby National Team, the Black Station trashed their Nigerien counterpart by 59 points to 13 points in an explosive international rugby test match last weekend at the Stade General Seyni Kountchede – Niamey. Nigerian Captain, Azeez Ladipo opened proceeding with a penalty goal just five minutes into the game. Joshua Etim scored the first Try of the match which was ably converted by Ladipo Azeez, while Christian Ogar scored the second Try and also converted by sure footer Azeez Ladipo. Black Stallion’s Captain Azeez Ladipo also made 6 Conversions, while substitute Scrum Half Monday Omorogieva concluded proceedings with 2 precise conversions which brought the total points in the second half to 42 points to 7 points. The Nigerien Rugby National Team scored a consolation try of their own in the 71st minute to keep the score line at a respectable 59points to 13points in favourof The Black Stallions. This international rugby test match was organised by Rugby Afrique to welcome Nigeria back to its fold after the lifting of the International Suspension. Nigeria Rugby National team the Black Stallions newly appointed South Africa Coach Mr. Bronson Weir was full of praise for his lads whom he described as work in progress. The President of the Nigeria Rugby Football Federation (NRFF), Mr. Kelechukwu Mbagwu who led the Nigerian delegation showered so much praise and reward on the team and the Most Valuable Player of the match; Samuel Ekpo (Flanker) for his sterling and dogged display throughout the match. The next international rugby match will be in September in the Africa Rugby Regional Sevens championship in Ivory Coast which is also a Pre – Olympic qualifiers and an All Africa Games/Africa Rugby Bonze Cup qualifiers for 2019. Meanwhile, the Nigerian High Commissioner’s representative Mr. Yakubu Adamu (Senior Consulor) who came alongside other Nigeria community members in Niamey to support the team were full of accolades for the fantastic display by the Black Stallions.