By Rebecca  Ejifoma The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) on Thursday night received another batch of 166 stranded Nigerians from Libya, making a total of 643 Nigerians brought back in the last five weeks. The Director General of NEMA, Mr. Mustapha Maihajja, who received the Assisted Voluntary Returnees at the MMIA and NAHCO Terminal, advised parents and guardians to discourage their children and wards from such trips that would derail their promising future. The DG, whom the South-west Zonal Coordinator of the Agency – Mr. Yakubu Suleman – represented, made the appeal after the confessions of the voluntary returnees and confirmations by most of the families that the victims came from. He pointed out that the intended countries of destinations were no longer ready to accommodate migrants due to several socio-economic and security factors. “Above this are the unconfirmed reports of emerging trends of alleged human organ harvesting from irregular migrants who are alleged to be sold to harvesters. If these developments are real, then we must discourage irregular migrations in whatever forms,” he added. Maihajja further emphasised that discouraging irregular migration and human smuggling could only be achieved by government and development partners with full cooperation of parents and guardians of youths through consistent sensitisation of dangers and evils of human trafficking. The NEMA boss, also, said that federal government would not relent in its efforts at creating conducive environment for every Nigerian to maximise his or her potential in the progress and development of the nation. The returnees were profiled. They were 66 female adults (three pregnant women, five female children and one female infant), 83 male adults including six male children and five male infants. They returned at 10:50pm on Thursday through Libyan Airlines with registration number 5A-DMG. The European Union through IOM is currently assisting the returnees in reintegration activities of the Returnees in their respective areas of choice.