Activate Success International Foundation has partnered First City Monumental Bank (FCMB) under the aegis of ‘Activate Success Int’l Foundation Youth Entrepreneurship and Empowerment Programme’ to mentor members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) on practical steps to become successful entrepreneurs. The event tagged ‘Youth Entrepreneurship and Empowerment Programme’ (YEEP) has already held in Abuja, Imo and Benue at the orientation camp auditoriums and was led by a team of professionals and celebrities such as Nollywood actor-Desmond Elliot; CEO of Vodi Tailors- Seyi Adekunle; Samson Itodo Executive Director YIAGA and the founder of Activate Success International Foundation- Love Idoko, among others. The last part of the event which will hold in a soon to be announced date will be the presentation of cheques to the beneficiaries. This practical mentorship with the aim of giving a well-defined career direction to the next generation has been a learning and development partnership between the facilitators and the youths present at the event. The speakers constantly drew from their own personal experiences and industry-wide view to offer career guidance to the aspiring youths, to help them navigate the difficult business terrain. Aside providing access to a wealth of knowledge and experience including opportunity to relate with the seasoned speakers, Activate Success International Activation and FCMB also gave N1million grant to the corp members. One of the speakers gave N1.2million grant to 12 corps members and another speaker gave a sum of N500, 000 as grant to 10 members making a sum of N2.7million in all. Commenting on the initiative, Idoko said giving a well-defined career direction and support to the next generation has always been her passion. She said, “I am very passionate about youths and their future. I feel so concerned when they are out of school and have nothing to do. Most of them are business-minded but lack direction and funds to kick start their ideas. In so many cases, they are looking for who they can talk to for counseling and even mentorship. So we hope that this mentoring and empowerment programme we are organising for the youth corp members at all the locations will make a lot of difference in their lives and help shape their future. She also appreciated FCMB and INTELIA for partnering her foundation to make the event a success.