An International Foundation, specialized in driving job creation through entrepreneurship, skills development and innovation, The Wadhwani Foundation has indicated interest in the training and development of students of Federal University of Agriculture Abeokuta (FUNAAB), through entrepreneurial drive and training. Speaking about the Foundation and its benefits to FUNAAB with the Director, Centre for Entrepreneurial Studies (CENTS) and his team, during a visit to the institution , the Executive Vice-President of the Foundation, Sunita Singh noted that aside facilitating high-quality job creation through entrepreneurship, skills development and innovation; it also inspires, educates and supports student entrepreneurs, startups and SMEs. She added that the foundation runs hyper-growth business accelerators, for growth startups and SMEs as well as empowers non-college-bound graduates with work-skills to command family support wages. The Director of CENTS, Professor Babatunde Adewumi later led a two-man team from the foundation to FUNAAB companies, where they toured the bakery and the Cassava Processing Factory. “Wadhwani’s concept is that you can grow business and employ people, which they aim to achieve with FUNAAB students,” he said. In another development, The Vice-Chancellor, Federal University of Agriculture Abeokuta (FUNAB), Professor Kolawole Salako, recently commissioned and handed over the College of Food Science and Human Ecology (COLFHEC) phase II to the College for use. Speaking at the commissioning ceremony, held recently, Salako expressed joy and satisfaction at the quality of work done and the readiness of the building for use. He said having additional infrastructure would always improve the situation of things on campus. “There are sufficient offices for professors, other lecturers and non-teaching staff. Also, the offices designed for the professors are befitting and of standard, ” he said, pointing out that while the construction was on-going, they were able to improve on the plan and the specifications as a result of which a standard building was constructed for the college.” He observed that the building will enhance teaching and research because of the laboratories put in place and a conducive environment for both lecturers and other staff to function.