In a move that will promote entrepreneurship and curb unemployment, the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) and Coca-Cola Nigeria Ltd along with its bottling partner, Nigeria Bottling Company, have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)  to establish no fewer than 1,000 women. Under the agreement, the beneficiaries, to be selected across Lagos State will receive training in financial literacy and business skills as well as start-up capital to integrate them into the Coca-Cola value chain as retailers of the company’s beverage products. This partnership is anchored on Coca-Cola’s 5by20 Programme, which is its  global commitment to enable the economic empowerment of five million women across the its value chain by 2020. Speaking at the signing ceremony, Executive Secretary of LSETF, Akintunde Oyebode stated that the fund mandate was aimed at creating an enabling environment for Lagos residents to fulfill their business aspirations by providing and easing access to finance as well as ensuring employment and innovative opportunities for all in the state. “A partnership with an organisation like this assures us that we are in the right direction and it strengthens our commitment to building entrepreneurs within the state. We understand that to empower a woman, is to empower a whole generation. We will continue to provide easy-to access and affordable credit to support women to start or expand their businesses; because when we do such, we create wealth and employment and that alleviates poverty”, he said. The Managing Director of Coca-Cola Nigeria Limited, Mr. Bhupendra Suri, reiterated the company’s commitment to boosting entrepreneurship in the country. He said: “More than ever, we are certain of our commitment to the well-being of our communities, a critical part of which are our women. As pillars of their communities, women invest a sizable portion of the income they earn on the health and education of their children and in their local economies, creating a tremendous economic impact. LSETF is our partner of choice for this initiative considering our shared vision on women empowerment and its vast network across the state.” Also, Legal and Public Affairs Communication Director, Nigeria Bottling company, Mrs. Sade Morgan, said: “We understand the importance of partnerships and that is why our growth is tied to  strategic partnerships with distributors, retailers and our consumers. Whenever there is a call to collaborate for sustainable impact, we ensure we are there to support it with our expertise.” Both Coca-Cola and its bottling will provide access to trade assets including (coolers, tables, umbrellas and Coca-Cola beverage products); peer networks, funds for training As well as support beneficiaries in the set-up of retail outlets in commercially viable locations. On its part, LSETF will fund the trade assets and co-fund the programme implementation. 