Seriki Adnoyi in Jos Four persons were last Tuesday evening killed by unknown assailants in Rigum community, Jos North Local Government Area of Plateau State. According to a resident whose son was killed, Mrs. Kogi Audu, the incident occurred at about 7p.m. She said: “We started hearing gun shots at about 7p.m. (Tuesday) and it continued for quite some times before it abated. Thereafter, members of the community mobilised and recovered four corpses in a nearby bush incidentally, my son, Lucky, was among those killed.” She added that the corpses were deposited in a hospital mortuary at about 11p.m.
Another witness said particular spot has been abode of youths who engage in the sales and consumption of illicit drugs. Anthony Kaze and Jacob John, leaders of the Neighbourhood Watch, both accused the Fulani herdsmen for the dastardly act. According to them, the Fulani herdsmen have been threatening them after they were prevented from grazing their cattle in the community. Immediately after the incident, part of the Rukuba road axis was blocked and some vehicles burnt while others were vandalised. Normalcy has however returned to the area as policemen were seen stationed along the Rukuba road. Confirming the killings, Special Task Force (STF) spokesman, Major Adam Umar, however, said it was a clash between two cultist groups that led to the death of four persons while two persons were injured. He added that the police were tracking the perpetrators. Meanwhile, Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) has accused the Berom and Irigwe natives of terrorising and attacking Fulani people in Barkin Ladi and Bassa Local Government Areas, adding that their actions are indication that there may be unrest in the state again if not checked. In a petition to the state Commissioner of Police, signed by Mohammad Nuru Abdullahi, the state Chairman of MACBAN, the Fulani group said the armed Beroms and Irigwe militias have resorted to attacking Fulani in the evening along the highways, rustling their cattle. He expressed serious concern, and called on all security agencies to immediately halt the criminals from continuing in the attacks which according to him have claimed over 200 cows and some lives.