Mohammed Aminu in Sokoto The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Goronyo Local Government Area of Sokoto State, Alhaji Kabiru Sarkin Fulani, Sunday said charlatans were behind the protest against a former governor of the state, Senator Aliyu Wamakko, in the area a few days ago. The APC chairman was reacting to the protest by some victims of 2010 flood disaster in the area last Friday, accusing the past administration of neglecting them and called on the government to come to their aid, as most of them are homeless. The victims, who came out in their hundreds, demanded the fulfillment of the pledge made by the former governor, Wamakko, eight years ago, to provide them shelter. Addressing journalists in the council, Fulani said those who held the demonstration against were hired and jobless people. “None of the handful political vagabonds is an indigene of the local government and they were each paid N5,000 to conduct the failed demonstration,” he said. He maintained that contrary to their unsubstantiated allegations, 95per cent of the 400 houses for the 2010 flood victims had been completed. “We are the indigenes of Goronyo council and we are the ones owing the former governor of the state tremendous gratitude. “This is because Wamakko had done everything for us and we never had it so good, than when he was the governor. “He executed other meaningful projects for us like the 30 housing units, five kilometres road network in Goronyo town and the construction of the new local government secretariat as well as upgraded our former primary health centre in Goronyo town to 40-bed General Hospital fully equipped with an ambulance and staff quarters,” he said. Also speaking, a former commissioner from the area, Zubairu Yari, said the former governor had also sunk 95 boreholes across the 11 polling wards of the area in addition to the construction of 400 houses. “I was a former commissioner and also the chairman of the local government when the construction of the 400 houses for the flood victims was started and 95 per cent of them were completed since then. “It is also the responsibility of the present administration to complete the remaining five per cent of the houses, as well as distribute them to the intended beneficiaries,” Yari added.