Oghenevwede Ohwovoriole in Abuja The National Secretary of the Action Democratic Party (ADP), Dr. James Okoroma has stated that leadership and governance has failed in Imo State. He stated this during the presentation of nomination form to the party’s governorship aspirant for Imo state, Mr. Success Obioma. He said that leadership eluded the people of Imo State after the first civilian governor of the state, late Mr. Sam Mbakwe left office, adding that the ADP was poised to provide good governance and purposeful leadership in the state with the coming of Obioma. According to him, “Since Mbakwe left, leadership has collapsed in the state. Noother governor after him has been able to offer effective leadership. “The time is right for a true change. I believe Obioma will be an agent in that direction. You will agree with me that the ideas, the views of the founding fathers of Nigeria have been abandoned and I believe that what we need now is a platform like ADP that will give room for the emergence of a crop of leaders who will give Nigeria a new direction.” Thanking the party for the opportunity given him, Obioma promised to deliver the state to the party by winning the Imo governorship election next year. He also advised his supporters not to engage anyone in a war of words. He added, “I have always told whoever cares to listen that I am coming from the direction God is leading. My mission is to rebuild Imo state, restore God’s presence in Imo and reconcile people of Imo state back to God” The National Organising Secretary of the party, Mrs. Lynn Olisa was full of praise for the aspirant. According to her, the party has participated in governorship electionsin Anambra and Ekiti states, saying the ADP is also taking part in the coming governorship election in Osun state. According to her, “Though the party is young, we are forging ahead and it is the credible alternative because, people are seeing that the APC and the PDP have nothing to offer. The party is giving women and the disabled free nomination forms.”