Oluchi Chibuzor The members of the Ambode Deaf Solidarity Movement, drawn from the 57 Local Government Areas and Local Community Development Areas LGAs/LCDAs under the All Progressives Congress (APC) Deaf Group has endorsed Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for second term re-election as Governor of Lagos State. They have also described him as the chosen governor for his verifiable, substantiated and unadulterated achievements since the inception of his administration. The endorsement came as the Deaf Group took a march yesterday, from the Ikeja Local Government Secretariat through Obafemi Awolowo way and terminated at Alausa Secretariat by Peace Park in front of the Lagos State House of Assembly. Speaking at the event through a sign Interpreter, the State Chairman, Lagos State APC Deaf Group, Onifade Fatai, “is a man of action and cares for the vulnerable and the less privilege.” According to him, many deaf people have received assistance ranging from empowerment tools and equipment, as financial grants are given to some of the deaf. He added that Ambode has created Social Welfare regime that impacted the sick and the people with disability, by offsetting in part or total sum of the medical bill. “It is on record that Ambode instituted Disability Entrepreneurship Trust Funds so as to empower Lagos Disability Community, while other Governors were looting their treasuries and Ambode is helping the hopeless persons in the state. He is doing his best to improve lives of those at the bottom of societal ladder, hence the public declaration of our acceptance of his performance and to categorically endorse him for the second term re-election as the Governor of Lagos state, in the forth coming 2019 general election.” On his part, the Secretary of the group, Adewale Adeyanju, said, “we want the governor to know that we have our PVCs- which is our power at the forthcoming election, in response the participants displayed and waved their PVCs to the delight of the permanent secretary, office of the civil engagement. Speaking at the reception ground, the Permanent Secretary, Civic Engagement, Mrs. Fadipe Bamidele, expressed the gratitude of the governor for the gesture and endorsement from the group, adding that the administration will constantly seek policies that meet their needs. Bamidele ‘’reinstated the commitment of the governor to do more for the vulnerable in the state.
The endorsement walk is part of a two day activities by the Deaf Group with a theme: One Vote is too important to ignore.”