By Nseobong Okon-Ekong Legend Extra Stout’s Real Deal Experience is returning to Lagos, and fans of the premium stout brand are in for a great time as it promises to be a remarkable event. The show which is slated to hold on the 25th of August at Abesan mini stadium, Abesan Estate, Ipaja is an initiative that has spanned several years and visited major cities and towns across Nigeria. The Real Deal Experience which is Legend’s flagship consumer engagement activity has become a core staple of the brand and is often revered for its perfect blend of fun, music, dance, laughter, games, and of course the premium stout goodness in a bottle of Legend Extra Stout. These events are also characterized by musical performances by some of Nigeria’s favorite artistes on popular demand. This edition, will be headlined by fast-rising street pop sensations, Mr. Real and Slimcase. Together, they will be leading the enthusiastic Lagos crowd on a dancing spree. Mr. Real, who is well-known for his 2017 hit, ‘Legbegbe’, and one of the pioneer promoters of the rave of the moment dance ‘Shaku Shaku’, will be entertaining the fans with some of his hit songs. Slimcase, an equally passionate representation of the latest street dance in body and in music style, will be gracing the stage with his popular hit features such as ‘Shepeteri’, ‘Diet’, ‘Oshozondi’ and ‘Shawashawa’, as well as his slangs which within the last few months have been accepted into the regular street lingo . The duo, who have featured in collaborations on other hit songs from DBanj and Mr. Eazi are expected to get fans giddy with excitement and leave them with a refreshing, unforgettable experience. The show will be co-hosted by Big Brother Naija’s Ifu Ennada who is known to be on her A-game in compering, giving the brilliant dozes she dished out on the BBNaija show. Also billed to host is comedian De Don. Legend Real Deal Experience involves music, comedy, role play, brand education, eulogy and exciting games. The ‘Taste, Tell and Win’ competition is one of the main activities on the lineup for the evening. It is a blind taste test wherein consumers identify Legend Extra Stout as the Real Stout and winners get to go home with exciting prizes such as flat screen television sets, generators and refrigerators, among other items. Speaking on the forthcoming show, the Portfolio Manager- Mainstream Lager & Stout Brands, Emmanuel Agu, stated that “Everything has been put in place to ensure that fans across Lagos have a time of their lives at the event. He also described it as part of Legend’s unwavering commitment to its consumers, an avenue to better interact with the brand’s consumers and a promise of continued entertainment being fulfilled.” “On the artistes performing for the night, he stated that it will be two times the fun as Slimcase and Mr. Real are up to the task of lighting up the stage and giving ovation-worthy performances.” He further said “Giving how accepted these two artistes have become in the last one year, there is no doubt that the fans would be excited to have them and be fully entertained by them, he added.” Apart from the headlining acts, there will also be electrifying live performances by other acts from across Lagos. The Real Deal Experience has over the years seen some of Nigeria’s biggest entertainers like MI, Timaya, 9ice, Kcee, Harrysong, Oritsefemi among others entertain Nigerians across different cities including Lagos, Ibadan, Onitsha, Enugu, Umuahia, Abuja, Port Harcourt, Abakaliki, and Owerri.