By Onyebuchi Ezigbo and Omololu Ogunmade in Abuja Ahead of the 2019 general elections, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has scheduled its Presidential Primary for September 19, while that for governorship positions would be on September 24. However, the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) would meet next Wednesday to approve the timetable and modalities for congresses and primary elections. The move to convene its NEC meeting came just as the ruling party yesterday vehemently protested the leakage of its notice of schedule for congresses and primary elections sent to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). According to the leaked notice, signed by the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, the party proposes to hold nationwide congresses on September 8. The notice to INEC, dated August 17, also proposed that the presidential primary would take place on September 19. Other proposals include, House of Representatives primary – September 19, Senatorial primary – September 20, Governorship primary -September 24 and House of Assembly primary September 29. However, the scheduling of presidential and House of Representatives primaries on the same day, September 19, raises doubts about the authenticity of this version of the APC’s notice. Embarrassed by the leakage of its letter to the INEC, the APC national leadership issued a statement yesterday, expressing disgust at the development. In a statement issued by its acting National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabene, APC said: “Our attention has been drawn to a leaked letter the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole wrote to the Chairman, Independent National Electoral Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu informing the Commission of the schedule of the congresses and primaries to elect party candidates for the 2019 general elections. “The leak of our sensitive and confidential correspondence to INEC is becoming commonplace and totally unacceptable. We strongly request that INEC looks into its internal handling of official correspondence and put a stop to these leakages.” APC said notwithstanding the leaked letter, the general public should await the final decision to be made at its NEC meeting on Wednesday. The statement said: “While the leaked formal notification to INEC was done pursuant to the provisions of Section 85 of the 2010 Electoral Act (as amended), we advise the general public, particularly the media, to wait for an official announcement from the party as the leaked dates are subject to changes, if necessary.” THISDAY gathered that the NEC meeting would consider proposals for the conduct of nationwide congresses to elect delegates to the national convention which would produce the flag bearer of APC for the 2019 presidential election. Another critical issue to be considered during the Wednesday’s NEC meeting is the modalities for the party’s primaries. The party leaders would decide whether to adopt direct or indirect-delegate method for electing their candidates for the 2019 elections. THISDAY gathered that the National Working Committee of the APC and other stakeholders are divided on which method to adopt. However, a reliable source, who confided in THISDAY yesterday, said the national chairman has been engaging in high-level and wide ranging consultations with a view to arriving at a common ground. It was further gathered that the matter would be tabled at a meeting of the nation leadership caucus, which comes up on Tuesday before the NEC meeting. While confirming the date for the NEC meeting, Nabene, insisted that the party had not approved any date for the primaries, adding that it was at the NEC meeting that final decision would be taken on the issues. Nabene, who spoke with THISDAY on telephone yesterday, also stated that the authentic timetable and modalities for the party’s primaries would be made public after the NEC meeting.