Emmanuel Ukumba in Lafia Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki and Governor Umaru Al-Makura of Nasarawa State yesterday expressed grief over the death of the immediate past governor of the state, Alhaji Aliyu Akwe-Doma, in an Israeli hospital on Tuesday. Saraki in a statement by his Special Adviser, Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, in Abuja, described the late former governor as a committed public servant who served the country in many capacities with distinction. “It is sad to hear of the demise of ex-governor Akwe Doma. He was a contemporary during my tenure as Governor of Kwara State,” Saraki said. “My interactions with him during the period revealed a man with deep intellect, experience and passion for service. “Little wonder that he rose through the ranks to become a Permanent Secretary in the old Plateau State and later served as deputy to a former governor of the state, late Chief Solomon Lar, before he was elected substantive Governor of Nasarawa State and served from 2007-2011. “My condolences go to his immediate family at this period of grief. I also commiserate with the people and government of Nasarawa State over this irreparable loss,” Saraki said. Saraki prayed God to count the soul of the deceased among the righteous in Aljanah Firdaus and grant his family and loved ones the fortitude to bear the loss. On his part, Al-Makura described the death of the Akwe-Doma, as a monumental loss to the state and the entire country. He said this in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Musa Elayo, stating that the elder-statesman was a point of reference for stability, consensus and nation building. The governor added that the vacuum created by the departure of the illustrious leader of the state will be hard to fill. He said: “He was a dedicated bridge builder and champion of unity, whom through his vast experince and uncommon goodwill, has brought peace and prosperity to the then Plateau State, where he served as deputy governor, and in the present Nasarawa State, where he served as a governor respectively.” “As a frontline public servant, he promoted values which enhanced our firm belief in our common humanity as a people with one destiny under God,” the governor maintained. Al-Makura continued that Doma was an architect of unity, as he defended and promoted the nation’s rich cultural heritage for which he would be greatly missed by all. “We are deeply saddened by this irreparable loss of a great statesman.
You are in our thoughts and prayers,” he said. The governor stated further that to say the late governor was larger than his life character would be an understatement as he will always be remembered as a great promoter of justice and peace.”