The Edo State Joint Account and Allocation Committee (JAAC) has said that N2.8 billion accrued to the 18 local government councils in the state from the Federation Account in January and disbursed in February. Head, Local Government Administration, Esan South East Local Government, Macaulay Ehonor, disclosed this at the end of JAAC meeting held at Government House, in Benin City and presided over by the state governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki. “The total receipt for the month of January disbursed in February is two billion, eight hundred and twenty-five million, three hundred and three thousand, nine hundred and fifty-six-naira, forty two kobo (N2,825,303,956.42)”. He said the total mandatory expenditure, which include teachers’ salaries, pension fund, health special intervention fund, training fund, five per cent for traditional council, stood at 1, 580, 942, 458.06. He added that the total distributable fund that was shared by the 18 local government councils is 1, 230,234,978.03. Ehonor explained that clashes between herdsmen and farmers in the state was deliberated at the meeting, noting, “As you will recall, the governor has directed the establishment of special committee in the local government councils to ensure that there is cordial relationship between the farmers and herdsmen to avoid breakdown of law and order in the state”. He said the committees at the local government areas are chaired by the heads of local government administration. Other members at that level of the committee include Divisional Police Officer (DPOs) in their respective local government councils; the officer-in- charge of the state security service (SSS);  two traditional rulers, the Seriki of Fulani and Hausa, making it a seven-man committee in each local government council. He continued, “JAAC resolved to support the state government to ensure peace and security by working with the security agencies in the discharge of their duties. He added that they will provide vehicles for the special taskforce.” Ehonor said the governor advised the people of the state to participate actively in the March 3rd elections and maintain peace in the various local government areas.