It was all pomp and excitement at the Global Congress, Vienna, Austria when Truckit, an indigenous company in Nigeria that provides a technology platform facilitating cost effective and secured transportation of goods and cargos with real time monitoring for individuals and companies, grabbed a prestigious international innovative award for its application – UTruckit. After a rigorous selection by WSA Grand Jury, UTruckit was selected as one of the 40 WSA Winners in the Smart Settlements and Urbanisation category of the World Summit Awards, bringing Nigeria back on the international award map since 2016. The award ceremony which started with workshop for winners and local entrepreneurs at Festival Hall, Vienna City, was a three days event. It also saw each 40 winners from different countries make a five minutes presentation of their innovations  to emerge the grand winner of the WS Awards. Initiated in 2003 in the framework of the UN World Summit on the Information Society (UN WSIS), the World Summit Awards is a highly diverse and democratic award system that selects and promotes the world’s best in digital content and innovative applications with impact on the society. Truckit launched its application in July 2017 and stands out on the strength of its innovation within the digital space. Mr. Tom Roberts,  the CEO and Founder of Truckit Trucks Solutions Limited, who stormed Austria with his Business Director, Mr. Valentine Anozia, to bring home his company’s international trophy feels very proud of the international honor. “We feel very proud of this award as it is a great honor that the international community recognised the exceptional value in the UTruckit APP. Almost 400 submissions from 180 UN member states participated in this year’s WSA contest. The competition was tough and the selection process was highly competitive and we are so glad we scaled through,” he gushed. “We are pioneers of the first Truck booking solution (UTRUCKIT App) in Nigeria and Africa. Managed by experienced professionals with a track record of delivering logistics solutions. It has been good doing such business in Nigeria,’’ the soft spoken CEO added. The application UTRUCKIT can be downloaded from Google play for Android and the Apple store for IOS users.