Kano won’t forget in a hurry, the day Jamil Abubakar and Fatima Dangote got married. On that day, the ancient city convulsed to the true power of wealth and celebrity. Kano submitted to the grace of Nigeria’s most powerful figures, like a vessel tilting to the splendorous splatter of the Pacific. The city paid homage to Nigeria’s most powerful figures as they united to celebrate the union of Jamil and Fatima. The wedding which was hosted by Emir of Kano, HRH Sanusi Lamido Sanusi II was undoubtedly an exhibition of pageantry and class; the Dangotes and Abubakars notable by their reputation for being subtle threw subtlety overboard, in honour of their children’s blissful ceremony. Jamil, son of former police Inspector General (IG), Muhammad Abubakar, was ecstatic as he tied the nuptial knots with Fatima, daughter of Africa’s richest billionaire and chairman of Dangote Group, Aliko. The couple could find no words to express their joy but their eyes and their smiles radiated all the happiness they could not put into words. Their marriage will indeed dominate public discourse at home and abroad, for a long while. The joy of the newlywed couple knew no bounds as they swooned with joy and excitement at the altar and on the dance floor. The pair waltzed across the reception hall like two royal scions at the threshold of their dreams. Every detail about their wedding was undeniably gorgeous. The rich and enviable social contacts and affiliations of both families were fully displayed and amply felt by everyone present at the occasion as the hall was packed full with the crème of the pack of Nigeria’s business and political high societies. There were fever pitch dances and splatters of beautifully dressed men and women as they began their matrimonial odyssey. Even as the night wore on, the merriment did not lose its lustre neither did the ecstasy of the new couple wane. The star-studded occasion was a crowd puller that had in attendance, President Muhammadu Buhari, Senate President, Bukola Saraki, among other political and business titans that flew into Kano from within and outside the country on 22 private jets. Those who could find no space on the private jets flew in on commercial airlines. Everybody wanted to be part of the August occasion. Glamour and class dominated the ornamented expanse of the wedding celebration; the wedding took place at 12 noon at the Kano Emir’s palace and it was conducted by the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, and supported by the Chief Imam of Kano, Sani Zaharaddeen. Buhari, in his capacity as the bride’s father, received N500,000 dowry from the representative of the groom at the occasion. Also, last Friday a big reception was held in the honour of the latest couple in town at the prestigious Eko Hotel, Lagos. It was a star-studded event that had World richest billionaire, Bill Gates in attendance. The event which was also attended by prominent Islamic scholars and other well-wishers from across the country also witnessed a large turnout of workers from various companies owned by the renowned business mogul.