By Bennett Oghifo A ssene-Laborex Limited, a pharmaceutical business division of CFAO Nigeria plc, a subsidiary of Eurapharma, and part of the CFAO- Toyota Tsusho Corporation have supported Kano State youths in the areas of healthcare, education and rugby sport.
The Managing Director, Assene-Laborex Limited, Paul Hogan disclosed this during the 3rd annual iTry Schools Rugby Tournament at the Sani Abacha Stadium, Kano. Scholarship sponsorship through CFAO Solidarite and administered by the British Council, was donated to support members of the winning teams in their education, whilst offering free genotype screening to many adults at the event, using the company’s new product called BioMedomics Sickle Scan™. BioMedomics Sickle Scan™ rapidly and accurately determines haemoglobin variants (genotypes) in less than five minutes. This novel product can also be used for new born screening i.e. at birth, which is currently unavailable in sub-Saharan Africa. Toyota Tsusho South Africa represented by Mr. Marc Thomson & Mr. Ian Govender were also major sponsors of the event. NIPEN’s BiC, a subsidiary of CFAO Nigeria was also an active sponsor of the event. Ade Adebisi, a former England International rugby player who is living with Sickle Cell Anaemia (SCD) was also there as brand ambassador to coach and motivate the youth’s that they can achieve their dreams even with SCD. During the company’s courtesy calls on the Emir of Kano, His Highness, Alhaji Muhammad Sanusi and the Acting Governor of Kano State, Prof. Afiz Abubakar, Mr. Hogan reiterated the company’s determination to continue supporting youth awareness in the State regarding sickle cell anaemia and knowing their genotype early in order to live active, healthy and successful lives.
Speaking at this exciting event, the Acting Governor, Prof. Afiz Abubakar thanked Assene-Laborex for supporting the event and called on other organizations, institutions and individuals to emulate the company’s commitment. The Grand Patron of Kano State Youth Rugby Championship, the Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II, in his remarks, thanked Assene-Laborex f§/.;;/;/’№?|?”|”?;”\or their support. He described sports as one of the critical developmental activities that engender peace and unity amongst the citizens and stated that couples considering marriage should be very aware of their genotype beforehand, and more stem cell transplant should be supported. His Highness, the Emir of Kano and His Excellency, the Acting Governor of Kano State received traditional South African mementoes from Mr. Marc Thomson. Thirty-six teams, 800 boys and girls aged 12-18 from schools, communities and clubs participated with Barewa Rugby Club, Kano, emerging overall winner. Mr. Martin Knox Crawford, a passionate rugby lover, initiated youth Rugby Championship in Nigeria as a resident of Kano for many years who coaching youths daily at the racecourse in Kano. For more information on Sickle Scan™ follow these links: sicklescan.ng@assene-laborex.com and Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, Linkedin @sicklescan.ng