Publisher and Chief Executive Officer of The Abuja Inquirer newspaper, Mr. Dan Akpovwa, has commended the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Malam Muhammad Bello, for what he described as “uncommon transparency” in the day to day running of the administration. Akpovwa, who made the commendation when he led a delegation of his management team to the minister, specifically noted with concern the transparency exhibited in the disbursement of area council’s allocations, just as he enjoined the FCT administration to ensure that the developmental stride is reflected in the area councils. He, however, solicited for a more robust partnership between the media and the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), noting that some of the giant strides are not given adequate publicity. “Mr. Minister, I came with a delegation of my management team to specifically thank you for your uncommon transparency in the disbursement of area council’s allocations. It is not in our tradition to sing praises of government officials, but your style of running a public office is worthy of note. “Since you came on board as minister, we have witnessed the transparent manner in which the allocations to area councils are disbursed. More significantly, we have also seen a systemic increase in the area council allocations. This is highly commendable and we want to identity with your administration,” Akpovwa stated. He also commended the minister’s farsightedness in his quest to open up new districts in the nation’s capital, adding that such step will assist in decongesting the city center. While responding, the FCT Minister, Malam Bello, appreciated the visit, even as he noted that the task of running a mega city like Abuja should not be left in the hands of government alone. Bello, who expressed regret over the under-utilisation and vandalisation of public facilities in the FCT called on media owners to assist government in the area of advocacy. He specifically mentioned the under-utilisation of pedestrian bridges and vandalisation of man-hole covers and electrical cables across the territory.