Herbert Wigwe, the ebullient Managing Director of Access Bank, was made for Chizoba. To Chizoba, it probably feels like she had him orry difference that’s hip and humanizing. In Erelu Ojuolape Ojora, the beautiful wife of Otunba Adekunle Ojora, everybody sees ravishing beauty and then they ask for her name. Even at her age, her smile is addictive, like the liquid courage that frees male inhibitions and lets a rat sing poetry to a hummingbird. Indeed, there are many ways to describe Erelu. The Erelu Oodu’a, Dame Ojuolape Ojora is one society woman who seems to get better with age. Like the fabled phoenix, she appears more regal and charming just when you think you have seen the best of her. Little wonder the Nigerian society celebrated her with so much aplomb when she celebrated her 80th birthday on Saturday, February 24. Grand matriarch of high society, Erelu Ojora, is one woman who has so much staying power. Quitting is not a word in her dictionary as she has presided over the social scene for more than half a century. Unlike others who become like food that grows stale after a time, the fabulous wife of Otunba Ojora reinvents herself often to ensure she stands out from the crowd. Little wonder high society was out in force to celebrate with one of their own as she turned 80 penultimate Saturday. The ageless mother of the wife of senate president Bukola Saraki, Toyin, was in high spirits as friends and family celebrated her with gifts and encomiums as she joined the octogenarian club. Erelu Ojuolape and her elegant sense of fashion and style have been a fixture of the Lagos party circle for a long, long time. No party is complete without her matronly presence. She and her husband have loomed large on the social scene for ages and yet show no sign of slowing down. Ojora who was born into a privileged background is in love with jewellery made by English jewellers such as Mapin and Webb in the United Kingdom. She also adorns jewellery made by Italians and as expected, pays attention to the minute details of her pieces when she attends events. Almost always in company with her husband and dressed to the nines, Ojora’s statement pieces, which she usually complements with traditional attire, matching shoes and bags come in an array of designs which suit her sense of style and personality at all times.