Chiemelie Ezeobi Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, has described the Police Cooperative Society as a positive catalyst in driving home his passion in alleviating the welfare of Police personnel through numerous welfare-oriented programmes. The IG who is the President of the Nigeria Police Cooperative Multi-Purpose Society Limited, at the 26th Annual General Meeting (AGM) held at the POWA Hall, Ikeja GRA, Lagos, enjoined the officers and men to be interested in how the affairs of the Society is run and contribute to the growth and development of the society through positive suggestions. Idris, who was represented by Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG), Valentine Ntomchukwu while all the members of the Board of Directors chaired by Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG), Abdullahi S. Fagge,were in attendance. According to the Assistant Force Public Relations Officer, Annex, DSP Aliyu Giwa, the occasion was attended by personnel of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) from across the country. Ntomchukwu in his opening remark reinstated the commitment of the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris to reposition and re-engineer the Police Cooperative society to perform its core mandates of promoting the social-economic well-being of its teeming members through encouragement of thrift and savings, providing platform for seamless accessibility to revolving loans, sales of goods at affordable prices, cars and motor cycles loans and provision of affordable housing among others. He also urged them to embrace voluntary contribution stressing the importance of saving with the society, whilst assuring them of proper accountability of the cooperatives fund and investments.
The IG expressed his sincere appreciation to President Muhammadu Buhari for always supporting and enhancing the welfare of personnel of the Nigeria Police Force. In the Board report presented by AIG Abdullahi Fagge, the chairman of the Board of Directors affirmed that his team had “engaged in reformation and turnaround towards enhancing the credibility of the Nigeria Police Cooperatives.”
The Commissioner of Police (CP) and Executive Secretary in charge of the Cooperatives Society, CP Sholla David assured that the management of the society will continue to strive to improve and provide superior services. This he said will create the right environment so that the members contributions and the Cooperatives valued business will enhance their income stream. He emphasised that the Cooperative management will continue to toe the vision of the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, in enhancing the welfare of the Officers and men. The audited accounts of the Police Cooperatives Society were then presented by the external Auditors and adopted by the members present at the AGM. The Annual General Meeting thereafter elected new Board members as the tenure of old Board members expired.