Former Captain of the Super Eagles, Nwankwo Kanu, has expressed his belief that the annual Greensprings Football Camp now in its seventh edition has become a permanent feature in Nigeria’s football calendar. As the face of the football clinic, the Ex-Arsenal star lauded the management of Greensprings School led by its director – Mrs Lai Koiki for keeping faith with the camp, adding that it has added value to football in the country. “I am always excited to be part of this initiative, especially watching it grow over the years, because not many of this kind of camp succeed for a very long time. The management of the school has remained committed to the sustenance of the camp, despite all odds and without any sponsorship. For this kind of gesture, I think more quality players will come through to the national teams,” he said. Already, two products of the camp, Musa Alli and Elvis Onyenze; who benefited from the Greensprings scholarship award, have featured for the Nigerian national U-15 team and Kanu believes this kind of experience would help the youngsters in their career. “I am particularly thrilled by the annual scholarship awards offered to the “Most Promising Player” by Greensprings School at the closing ceremony of the football camp; this generous gesture by the school will help Nigeria produce educated footballers who will be in a better position to negotiate their contracts and make better decisions for a life after football. “For me, this is the best legacy we can bequeath our children,” the former Inter Milan striker further observed. Kanu has promised to be on ground to motivate participants during the camp which holds between April 8 and 13 at the Lekki campus of Greensprings School. For this year’s Greensprings Kanu Football Camp (GKFC), the organisers will once again offer educational scholarship to the “Most Promising Player” at the camp. Also, this year will witness other exciting activities such as movie night, inspirational presentations, swimming, penalty kick contests and a host of other team games.