Emmanuel Ugwu, Umuahia After several years of inactivity, the Aba General Hospital has been revived to start offering medical services to residents as part of efforts by Abia State, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu to strengthen the secondary healthcare system of the state. The once popular general hospital in the commercial heartbeat of Abia went moribund in 2010 but has now been reopened following its rehabilitation by the Ikpeazu administration. At the reopening ceremony, the governor was nostalgic in recalling the importance of the general hospital in the healthcare of residents of Enyimba city before the burble burst. ‘’The hospital was firm, secure and renowned for medical practice but a few years ago the story changed. Today is yet another milestone. This is good news for Aba people that your general hospital has bounced back,’ he said.
He noted that the hospital was always there for Aba residents and attended to all kinds of ailments in its heyday, adding that the glory days of the famous hospital have returned. ‘’I see a tomorrow for this place better than what we have seen before. Soon the best equipment in the world will be in this hospital,” he assured. To put the hospital on the right path of surpassing its past glory, Ikpeazu announced that his government would provide a 250 KVA generating set within a month while rehabilitation of dilapidated structures would continue.
He said the state was expecting four containers of assorted hospital equipment part of which would be installed at the general hospital. The State Commissioner for Health, Dr John Ahukanna lauded Governor Ikpeazu for his passion in ensuring that the secondary healthcare system of the state was strengthened. He noted that the Aba general hospital has become the first to be completed in the rehabilitation programme for moribund secondary health institutions while others would follow in due course. Both the executive secretary, Hospital Management Board (HMB), Dr Ijeoma Nduka and the chairman of the Board, Alozie Reginald, all regretted the sorry state the hospital plunged into for eight years, expressing delight at Governor Ikpeazu’s efforts in reviving the hospital.