John Shiklam in Kaduna Armed gunmen have reportedly killed 12 soldiers in Kampanin Doka in Birnin Gwari Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The incident was said to have taken place on Tuesday night. The soldiers were said to be among a detachment of troops deployed to the village to ensure security for expatriates and others working on a new road linking Zamfara State with Kaduna through Dansadau-Dangulbi and Birnin Gwari.
Last year, one of the foreign engineers working at the site was kidnapped by unknown gunmen and later released.
It was learnt that after the incident, the workers, including the expatriates were said to have fled the site. They were said to have returned to the site following the deployment of soldiers for their security. A source close to the emirate council who pleaded anonymity, said the bandits attacked the soldiers’ camp between 8p.m. and 9p.m. on Tuesday killing three soldiers in a hole and nine others in the camp. “We gathered that the soldiers had caught a thief in a village called Maganda in the area and were taking him back to their camp when some personnel of the Nigerian Police Force asked them to hand over the thief to them which the soldiers refused. “The same police followed the soldiers to their camp in Kampanin Doka and again asked them to hand over the thief to them, but the soldiers still refused.
“Around 8p.m. on Tuesday, bandits attacked the soldiers’ camp and killed three soldiers in a hole and nine others in a tent in the camp,” the source said. He called on the state government to find a way of tackling the rampaging activities of bandits in the area.
He lamented that it was unfortunate that “the government has not deemed it fit to declare the bandits as terrorists and are still describing the attacks as farmer-herdsmen conflict. “This is not the case. In fact, now there are no cows in the area because of banditry.”
However, when contacted to confirmed the incident, the spokesman of the 1 Division of the Nigerian Army, Colonel Mohammed Dole, who did not confirmed the incident, said a statement would soon be issued. “We are preparing a press release which will be released to the media as soon as possible, please give me some time,” he said. Meanwhile the Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, has expressed regrets over the loss of lives in the attacks.
In a statement, the governor expressed condolences to the Birnin Gwari communities and the military over the incident. The governor in the statement by his spokesman, Samuel Aruwan, called for continuous collaboration between communities and security forces to overcome banditry. “Malam el-Rufai received with sadness reports of bandit attacks in Doka and Maganda villages. He praised the communities for their vigilance and their collaboration with the military to thwart the attacks,” the statement said. Aruwan said further that government is monitoring developments in Birnin Gwari Local Government and reiterated the firm resolve to overcome rural banditry, with the support of communities and the assistance of security. According to him, “sustained vigilance by communities and the information they provide are very crucial to assisting the security agencies” adding that “government threats every security information with the utmost agency, as it discharges its obligation to protect lives and property.”