John Shiklam in Kaduna Danladi Wada, the factional Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kaduna State loyal to Senator Suleiman, has reigned from his position. At a press conference thursday in Kaduna, Wada said his decision to quit was personal, adding that he took the decision after wide consultations with his family, friends and associates. Wada was abducted last Saturday at gun point after the 5:30a.m. prayer in a mosque near his Angwan Rimi GRA Kaduna. He was released by his abductors after 24 hours in Zaria and was brought home by an acquaintance.
Wada expressed gratitude to members of the APC in Kaduna and nationwide for their support during the turbulent moments. “I’m still a member of APC in Kaduna State and I will continue to be a member of the party in the state.
“However, for peace to return in the state especially in APC Kaduna, I hereby on March 29, 2018, resign my position as Deputy Chairman and acting Chairman of APC Kaduna for personal reason. “This is after due consultation with my family, friends and some members of the APC in the state.
“I thank everybody for the support. I wish everybody good luck in all their endeavours. I hope we will continue the struggle for APC to remain in Kaduna and beyond 2019,” he said. On whether his decision to quit had to do with his recent abduction, Wada maintained that his decision was personal, stressing that he wants peace to reign. “I want the party to succeed but with the kind of situation we have, I realised that there would be problems for the party. So, I therefore decided to make this supreme sacrifice,” he said.
Meanwhile the state Organising Secretary of the APC, Alhaji Sa’adu Idris Kudan, has been appointed the factional chairman. A statement issued yesterday by Kudan maintained that to avert leadership vacuum, “the State Working Committee of APC” had appointed him as the acting state chairman of the party. The statement said: “Wada and his family found it unbearable to continue to hold the position considering imminent threat to his life.” The statement maintained further that the resignation of Wada “does not validate or legalised the unconstitutional hoisting of Shuaibu Idris Lauje as the state acting state Chairman of the party since he was never elected to the APC Kaduna State Executive Committee in the 2014 APC congresses.”