• Atiku, Saraki mourn Few days after the death of former Nasarawa State Governor, Mr. Aliyu Akwe-Doma, the first civilian Governor of Adamawa State, Alhaji Saleh Michika, has been reported dead. Michika died last Saturday night at the Federal Medical Centre in Yola where he was receiving treatment. Mr. Macaulay Hunohashi, the Special Adviser on Media to Governor Muhammadu Bindow, said the governor who visited Michika at the hospital on Saturday was later in the night informed of Michika’s death. Born in 1941, Michika became the first elected governor of Adamawa, State created out of defunct Gongola State from 1992 to 1993 under the defunct National Republican Convention (NRC). Michika left behind wives, 38 children and 99 grandchildren. The deceased was buried yesterday by 2p.m. in his hometown, Michika. The social media is already agog with the news of the death as Governor Muhammad Jibrilla, tweeted: “I join the family and the entire people of Adamawa State in mourning the death of our father and former Governor of Adamawa State, Alhaji Saleh Michika. May Allah grant him Al-jannatul-Firdausi.” Ibrahim Babangida @IBabangidau, said “Funeral arrangements for the late Alhaji Abubakar Abdallah Saleh Michika, Salatul janaza:at Modibbo Adama central mosque Yola, immediately after Zuhr prayer. Good night. Have a memorable night.” Danjuma Maduwa @Danjuma_maduwa tweeted: `Inna lillahi wa inna illahi raji’un. We’re mourning the departure of former Governor of Adamawa State, Alhaji Saleh Michika, who departed today due to a brief illness in his home state Adamawa. Meanwhile, former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar and Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, have expressed their condolences over the death of Michika. Atiku in a statement released by his media office in Abuja yesterday, recalled that the late Michika had the honour of pioneering Adamawa State into its democratic journey in 1992 as its first civilian governor under the then governing National Republican Convention (NRC) in the state. He noted that the former governor was a banker with the British Bank of West Africa, and later worked with John Holt company before venturing into politics. The former vice president condoled with the Michika family, people of Michika and the government and people of Adamawa State over the loss. He prays to Allah to grant him Jannatul Firdaus and fortitude to the family to bear the loss. On his part, Saraki expressed sadness over the death of Michika. In a statement by his Special Adviser (Media and Publicity), Yusuph Olaniyonu, in Abuja, the senate president  described the late governor as a hardworking and patriotic Nigerian who served his country both in the public and private sectors with merit during his lifetime. “Michika’s contribution to democratic governance and national development remains legendary. He will be sorely missed,” Saraki said. He commiserated with the immediate family of the deceased, the people and Government of Adamawa State over the irreparable loss. Saraki also prayed God to count the soul of the departed among the righteous ones in Aljannah Firdaus and grant his loved ones the fortitude to bear the loss.