Ademola Babalola in Ibadan
One of the gubernatorial aspirants of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Oyo State, Mr. Seyi Makinde, yesterday begged the party’s leader and former Governor Rashidi Ladoja to rescind his decision to dump the party.
A statement titled: “Strong appeal to Ladoja,” Makinde appealed to the former governor not to carry out his plan following vexed harmonisation of the state PDP executive. In a statement issued by his organisation and signed by Prince Dotun Oyelade, Makinde reminded the former governor of his leadership role and the collective desire of Oyo State people for a change of baton come 2019.
According to the release, Makinde said: “I am privileged to be referred to as one of your political sons and  which you yourself confirmed on a radio programme two days ago. Therefore as a true son of a valiant father, I hereby humbly but strongly appeal to you not to contemplate leaving the house that we are jointly trying to roof, just before the raining season’’ Makinde said such a decision, coming from a tested leader would leave the people confused as majority of party members and indeed the masses in Oyo State are already excited about the prospect of genuine regime change that would fulfill its electoral promises and respect Institutions and elders. The statement said the issue of harmonisation of party executives which is being blown out of proportion appears to be the most realistic arrangement to actualise our objective because political expediency narratives are determined by circumstances on the ground. “In our own party, the PDP at the national level learnt a bitter lesson from 2015 debacle where only one tendency was saddled with control of the party hence it became imperative for the National Working Committee (NWC) to ensure an all-inclusive state executive is put in place to avoid going to war with a divided army. Like others, who desire positive change via PDP under your Leadership in state I strongly believe no single tendency can do it all alone. Makinde asked: “What does it profit you Sir, to abandon your children and allow by default the perpetration of anti-youth employment policy as graphicised in the current 2018 budget to continue? God forbid. You and I will not allow it, and the millions of youths who are pining away in abject lack in spite of going to school and  who were deceived to being foot soldiers in 2015 will obviously resist it legitimately. And this is why sir, that the prospect of leaving the party is not an option.”