The Governor of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Obseki, has expressed his appreciation to Edo voters, civil society organisations, the media, security agencies and other stakeholders for the successful conduct of last Saturday’s local council polls in the state. In his message of appreciation on the sideline of the swearing-in of the elected officials, Obaseki noted that “the elections will go down in the annals of history as the most peaceful and most organised elections, devoid of chaos and disorderliness, unlike what we have been used to in this part of the world.” He said: “As a government, we are extremely proud of Edo voters for changing the narrative of how Nigerians participate in elections. For the first time in our recent political history, voting was done in the most civilised manner. He lauded security agencies, traditional rulers, party leaders, members of the civil society and other stakeholders for their roles in setting the stage for the peaceful conduct of the local council polls across the state. “Voters took their time, went to their various polling centers, cast their votes and went home without any troubles. The Edo LG Polls have set a new template for future elections in the country and will go down in the annals of Nigeria’s recent electoral history as the most peaceful and orderly elections in the country. The governor commended the Edo State Independent Electoral Commission (EDSIEC) for living up to their word, as “the success of the polls would not have been possible without the effort of the Edo State Independent Electoral Commission (EDSIEC). I salute EDSIEC for living up to their word. “I had charged EDSIEC before the local council polls that we wanted a hitch-free exercise devoid of crisis and they promised to do their best and I am happy to report a successful exercise and we are pleased with the outcome of the polls. “I congratulate the elected local government chairmen and councilors who were sworn-in on Monday and urge you to commence work immediately by replicating our ‘Wake and See’ approach to governance at the local councils.” He told the elected officials that “Governance is about service delivery. You must feel the pulses of the people, attend to their needs by providing tangible, measurable, verifiable and impactful projects that can improve the lives of our people in the grassroots.” 