Nume Ekeghe Fidelity Bank Plc has disclosed that its savings deposit grew from N89 billion to N170 billion in the last three years, even as it continues to promote savings culture. Speaking at the prize presentation ceremony of the bank’s ‘Get Alert in Million Savings Promo Reloaded,’ the Chief Executive Officer Fidelity bank plc, Mr. Nnamdi Okonkwo, who disclosed this, said the bank has consistently rewarded its customers through such reward schemes in the last 10 years. He pledged that Fidelity Bank would continue to advocate savings culture. At the event, the bank presented cash and other consolation prizes to the winners of the fifth monthly promo. Represented by the General Manager/Regional Bank Head, Fidelity Bank Mr. Obaro Odege, the bank CEO said: “About three years ago, the savings base was about N89 billion but I can tell you that today we have crossed N170 billion threshold and it is still growing. So clearly, we have really demonstrated a lot of traction since this promo started. He added: “The ‘Get Alert in Million Promo’ is the seventh promo to be conducted in the last 10 years. It is a unique promo aimed to improve the standard of living of our customers. We have two categories of draws the monthly and the bi-monthly draws. This promo is conducted simultaneously in sex zones of the country where winners have also emerged.” Furthermore, he said: “Beyond just improving the lives of our customers, one of the major benefits of the promo exercise is to reward our loyal customers and it is also in a bid to key into the financial inclusion policy of the central bank of Nigeria. “For saving we know the importance of savings culture and the criteria is that you must be a savings account owner if fidelity bank and the draws are held in a transparent manner in a randomised system. Our draws are held in a very transparent manner observed by all the regulators present in all the draws and with the press present as well.” Speaking at the event, the N2million winner, Mr. Okechi Israel Nwabilor, who is an independent petroleum marketer from Egbeda branch said: “Honestly I was not expecting it and when they called I was surprised and I was still doubting up until this moment. I feel happy because fidelity is bank of the day. The talk and do. This money I would still continue to invest in my business and Iwant to appreciate fidelity bank and urge others to open accounts and the grace of God they may be one of the lucky winners in time to come.”