…With integrity, expertise, our candidates will transform LGAs – Obaseki In what has been described as a fatal blow to the opposition in the state, the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State, has received over 10,000 decampees from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, as it wraps campaign for the upcoming local government elections slated for March 3, in the state. National Chairman of the APC, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, received the over 10,000 decampees during a Mega Rally organised to wrap campaigns for the local government elections in the state, at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium in Benin City, the Edo State capital. In his remarks, Governor Godwin Obaseki, said that the APC intends to change the face of local government administration by fielding candidates who do not only possess integrity but are going to be bringing varied expertise as experienced professionals. According to him, “Today, we are making history. I am not sure there is any state in Nigeria that wraps up a campaign for local government elections with such a Mega Rally. The men and women we have put forward are people of integrity. Some of them have doctorate degrees while others have worked for many organisations.” Noting that he intends to distil his brand of politics to the local government areas in the state, Obaseki said, “They are going to move the wake and see mantra to the local governments. We want to show that Nigeria is an APC country and that Edo is an APC state. We want to assure the President that he has 1.2m votes from Edo State in the presidential elections. We want to assure Edo people that after Saturday elections, they will have ‘wake and see’ councillors and local government area chairmen.” National Chairman of APC, Chief Odigie-Oyegun, said that the APC is not a party that takes people for granted and is not a party for cowards, noting, “We welcome leaders from the opposition, who have joined from the different local government areas. We are very sure that we are going to have 18 local government chairmen after these elections.” Stressing that the convincing leadership provided by Governor Obaseki and his predecessor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has set the stage for progress, he said, “I congratulate the governor in Edo State; he is a silent worker. I also want to congratulate the man who laid the foundation, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole.” Minister of Youth and Sports, Barr. Solomon Dalung, said that the convincing work done by the APC in the state has endeared the people to the party, noting, “for the first time, the PDP saw defeat coming and abandoned the war. I congratulate former Governor of the state, Adams Oshiomhole. He laid the foundation for the revolutionary politics in Edo State. He gave them a deafening blow and now they have surrendered.” Former governor, Comrade Oshiomhole said he was extremely proud of Governor Obaseki for how he has taken the baton and continued to show progressive leadership. According to him, “Ten years ago, we promised to eradicate Godfatherism in politics in Edo State. That was why we launched the one-man-one-vote campaign. And it is interesting to witness in our lifetime that the PDP has surrendered even without a punch.”