By Segun  James It took the timely intervention of the men of the Nigerian Police to bring sanity to the rally held by the Lagos West Senatorial District of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the premises of the Lagos State Broadcasting Corporation to endorse the second term bid of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode as supporters of Senators Musiliu Obanikoro and Solomon Adeola aka Yayi, clashed over the senatorial ticket of the party for the district. Although the event was to showcase the achievements of Ambode in the last three years and why he deserves a second coming as governor; while leaders of the party insisted his works were exemplary to merit a second term, the event was however marred by the unruly behaviours of the supporters of Obanikoro and Yayi who confronted each other over who between their leaders deserved the senatorial ticket. Trouble started when Yayi entered the venue with his supporter amidst heavy drumming and jubilations. The supporters of Obanikoro who were already at the venue became angry at the audacity of Yayi’s supporters. Before long, there were altercation which later degenerated into pushing and shoving; but the timely intervention of the police later saved the day. Meanwhile, the district of the party, in a statement by the senatorial leader, Prince Rabiu Oluwa, told the people that the state had been blessed with leaders such as Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Governor Raji Fashola whose good works Ambode had been building upon. Oluwa who was visibly angry at the unruly behavior of the supporters of both aspirants said that their action had “meaning,” and that the leadership of the party saw what they had done and had taken note.  He made it clear that the endorsement of Ambode was not a campaign rally but a call by the district of the party for  him to run for a second term.  He therefore gave the symbol of the call on the governor to the state chairman of the party, Chief Henry Ajomale to tell the governor that he had the support of the people to contest for a second term.  Oluwa’s call was supported by the national woman leader of the party, Mrs. Kemi Nelson who stressed that you don’t change a winning team. She insisted that Ambode had shown that he had what it takes to take the state to the next level. At the event was the state deputy governor, Princess Idiat Adebole, former deputy governor, Sarah Sosan and Senator Ganiu Solomon among others. 