WORLD CUP 2018 The Managing Director, Nigerian Bottling Company Limited, Mr. George Polymenakos has charged the Super Eagles to go for glory in the upcoming FIFA Mundial in Russia this summer. He expressed this optimism while speaking at the press conference that heralded the arrival of the original FIFA World Cup Trophy in Nigeria for the third time courtesy of Coca-Cola and its bottling partners, Nigerian Bottling Company Limited. While felicitating with the entire Nigerian football family, which is already buzzing with excitement and happiness, he expressed the company’s delight to have this unique opportunity to connect with the consumers through their passion point and make them happy with the World Cup Trophy Tour experience. “We at NBC and Coca-Cola would always be committed to bringing happiness and refreshment to Nigerians, this partly informs why we are aligned with FIFA on this World Cup Trophy Tour that would see the trophy touch 91 cities and 51 countries, spreading happiness and psyching up the people to get ready for what is unarguably the greatest sporting fiesta coming up this year in Russia,” he said. Speaking at the VVIP Viewing Experience of the FIFA World Cup Trophy, the Minister for Youth and Sports, Solomon Dalung, expressed the hope that with the presence of the FIFA World Cup Trophy which is currently on tour in Nigeria, the Super Eagles would be motivated to do well in Russia 2018 World Cup Finals. Also expressing his delight that Nigeria is one of the few special countries where the trophy would be seen in two different cities. “I commend the efforts of the management of Nigerian Bottling Company Limited and Coca-Cola for this memorable moment, they have always been a good partner for the development of sports in Nigeria. I task other corporate bodies to emulate what they have done today and even do better,” he said. Some of the ex-football stars who were part of the tour include; Samson Siasia, Austin Eguavoen, and former French International, Christian Karembeu. The FIFA World Cup Trophy Tour would berth in Lagos today and will be on parade at the Tafawa Balewa Square on Saturday.