Emma Okonji The federal government, through the Federal Ministry of Education, has approved the Cisco Networking Academy Programme as well as the establishment of six Internet of Things (IoT) innovation centres across the Federal Unity Colleges in the six geo-political zones of the country. The initiative is part of Cisco’s strategic partnership with the Federal Ministry of Education to provide access to quality ICT education in the country. The project is driven by one of Cisco’s Networking Academy Support Centres, UNITeS and so far, two IoT Innovation Centres have already been established at the Federal Science and Technical College, Yaba and at FGC, Bwari, Abuja. Speaking at the official opening and inauguration of one of the Innovation Centres at Queen’s College, Lagos, the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu represented by the Director of ICT, Federal Ministry of Education, Ifegwu Orji, said: “Qualitative education in the modern world is intrinsically tied to the development and deployment of ICT in education. This initiative by Cisco is highly commendable as it will train our students to become global problem solvers and to become competitive on a global level. It is my earnest desire that this centre will produce great minds that will make a difference Nigeria.” The minister also approved all other Cisco long-term CSR programmes, even as he urged all stakeholders in the sector to partner the government in order to salvage the education system of the country towards the attainment of sustainable development, towards a digital economy. CSR Programme Manager, Cisco Nigeria, Imoh Akpan, said: “The establishment of these centres is one way that Cisco encourages the adoption and the application of technology. Our aim is to boost the education sector, ensuring more students are exposed to skills for the digital economy, in the current 4th Industrial Revolution, thereby enhancing Nigeria’s global competitiveness, boosting socio-economic development as well as promoting employability.” The Unites Internet of Things Innovation Centre is the first in sub-Saharan Africa, designed to serve as a centre for research and development that will provide solutions to social challenges and developmental problems, and transform Federal Unity Colleges into smart schools for teaching and learning. The intervention will provide students with a competitive edge when entering higher education or the labour market.