By Ejiofor Alike A former aide to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, Mr. Reno Omokri, has stated that no trucks of fertilizer got missing during the Jonathan administration as alleged by President Muhammadu Buhari. Omokri was reacting to the recent comments made by President Buhari when he hosted the Presidential Fertilizer Initiative at the presidential Villa, Abuja, where he stated that “unlike in previous governments where trucks conveying fertiliser would miraculously disappear in transit, in 2017, none of the three thousand, three hundred and thirty three (3,333) trucks that participated in this programme went missing.” Omokri said in a statement that it beats his imagination how a man approaching 80 years of age will continue to lie without restraint. He stated that Jonathan’s government stopped sending trucks of fertilizer nationwide, adding that instead of that archaic model, Jonathan’s administration introduced the e-wallet system of fertilizer distribution, which cut out the middle man and thus the need for trucks of fertilizer. “By that system, farmers got a text directing them to pick up their fertilizers themselves at a location nearest to them. I have pictures and can provide the President with over one million names, phone numbers and addresses of Nigerian farmers who can testify to what I have just written. Mr. President may want to educate himself on this issue some more,” Omokri said. According to Omokri, this policy saved the federal government $1 billion and was cited by Transparency International as one of the reasons for which it gave the Jonathan government an eight point improvement in the 2014 Corruption Perception Index when Nigeria moved from 144 to 136, stressing that that has been Nigeria’s greatest improvement in the annual CPI to date. “It does seem that President Buhari is divorced from reality and that he still thinks Nigerians are gullible.  In just 2018 alone, eight independent international indexes have rated the Buhari government as much worse than the Jonathan administration in almost every Index of government, including the following: Transparency International; IMF Report; Press Freedom Index; Rule of Law Index ; Investment Attractiveness Index; Global Competitive Index; World Security & Police Index and Spectator Index,” Omokri explained. Omokri noted that even the Nigerian Government’s National Bureau of Statistics revealed that whereas the Jonathan administration set an unprecedented jobs record by creating six million new jobs for Nigerians between 2010 and 2015, over 10 million Nigerians have lost their jobs under the present government. “Yet President Buhari still talks about “16 years of PDP misrule”. The President is obviously living in a reality distortion bubble,” he added.