Kasim Sumaina in Abuja Minister of Transportation, Mr. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi has received the final Report of the Interim Management Committee on Maritime Academy of Nigeria, (MAN) Oron, Akwa Ibom State. The Interim Management Committee which was inaugurated by Amaechi on the 7th of September 2017 to run the affairs of the Academy for Six Months and ensure that it is properly restructured and repositioned for academic excellence in line with other Maritime Academy World over, submitted its final report to the Minister in Abuja Receiving the Report on behalf of the Minister of Transportation, the Permanent Secretary, Sabiu Zakari expressed profound gratitude for the good work done by the Interim Management Committee members and for coming up with a road map for the revitalisation of the Maritime Academy of Nigeria, Oron. He noted that the Interim Management Committee came to being through a fact finding mission to ascertain the veracity of a story going round at the time that MAN, Oron Academic Standard was nose-diving and needed to be rescued without delay. He however, promised to send the Report to the Board of Maritime Academy of Nigeria, Oron, adding that the Ministry will ensure its recommendations are fully implemented. “You have performed this job at little or no cost and we thank you for a job well done”. We accept it and will do all you have recommended”, he enthused. The Chairman of the Interim Committee, Chief Adebayo Sarumi while handing over the report to the minister, thanked him for given them the opportunity to serve in the capacity. He said, “during the course of this assignment, we were able to critically look into the books of the Academy and some areas of academic deficiency were detected.” Sarumi noted that the academic standard of the Maritime Academy of Nigeria, Oron was below standard and there was need to properly train qualify Seafarers in line with world standard. He emphasised that the Report if carefully implemented by Government, will serve as a road map for standard academic development of MAN, Oron that will meet the need of students and in turn boost the morale of staff for effective and efficient job performance.