How does one begin to write about the wedding of the daughter of the richest man in Africa?  Again, how does one describe the wedding that has in attendance Microsoft’s founder, Bill Gates? It was described by a source that it would simply be taken as the most expensive wedding of all time!
When the wedding of Fatima Dangote and his sweetheart, Jami Abubakar, was announced a few weeks ago, many had anticipated that it would be the talk of town for a very long time. The fairytale wedding, which held in Kano, Kaduna and Lagos respectively, had in attendance dignitaries from all walks of life.
The mouth-gapping event would remain in the memory of many guests that made the wedding as many of them confirmed that they had never seen anything like it in all their years of attending parties or events.
‘’It was the most amazing, most colourful, most spectacular wedding ever in the social circle,’’ a source added.
Dangote successfully proved to the whole world that his pre-eminence in the business world is not a fluke, given the array of guests who graced the colourful event inside the upscale Eko Convention Hall of the Eko Hotel and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos. “Without exaggerating, it will take a very long time before we can witness anything near this party. It was simply sophisticated and captivating,”  a source said.
“The mind-blowing wedding has set another standard that will be used to measure a good society event in the country for a long time to come,” another source revealed.
Some of the high-class personalities who witnessed the event include Wife of the President of Nigeria,  Hajia Aisha Buhari; Vice President, Prof.Yemi Osinbajo and his wife, Dolapo; Senate President, Bukola Saraki and his wife, Toyin; Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara;  Emir of Kano, Mallam Sanusi Lamido Sanusi; Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu; Ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo; Ex-President Yakubu Gowon; Governor of Nigeria’s Central Bank, Godwin Emefiele. Others were Oil mogul, Femi Otedola; Group Managing Director, Oando Plc.,  Wale Jubril Tinubu; Senator Dino Melaye; Senator Demola Adeleke; Senator Ita Giwa; billionaire business woman, Hajia Bola Shagaya; Oil and gas businessman, Otunba Funsho Lawal; Former governor of Ogun State, Aremo Segun Osoba and wife, Derin; Ex- governor of Ekiti State,  Otunba Niyi Adebayo, among others.
Some of the artistes who added flavour to the enchanting wedding include Davido, Timi Dakolo Bovi, Seyi Law, Toolz, DJ Cuppy, Omawunmi, Waje and King of World Beat, King Sunny Ade, who rounded off the event with his music.