Victor Ogunje in Ado kiti Miffed by the way their son was detained in an unjustified manner by operatives of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (F-SARS), the family of one Seyi Ogunjuyigbe, has petitioned the Commissioner of Police in Ekiti, Abdullahi Chafe, urging the policemen to be reprimanded for allegedly breaching his rights In a petition to the CP, the family through their counsel, Chris Omokhafe, accused the police of denying him access to food and legal representation. The victim, who is an Engineer with BISWAL Engineering Nigeria Ltd. has been in detention since Monday that he was asked to report for interrogation over alleged missing of batteries from generating plants that supply electricity to a telecommunication mast in Ikole Local Government. The petition read: “A lawyer from the office of C.O Omokhafe & Co has been visiting the F-SARS office in Ado Ekiti since March 12, 2018, to see the said Seyi Ogunjuyigbe, but the men of the F-SARS particularly the second in command has vehemently denied him access to his client. “In fact on March 13 and 14, 2018, the pastor and wife of our client went to F-SARS office to give him food, they were both denied access to him in the presence of the lawyer.
“On March 14, 2018, we met the new Investigation Police Office in charge of the case at F-SARS office by name Julius and demanded that our client be released to us on bail or charged to court. The IPO and the 2I/C told us in the presence of our client’s pastor and wife that they were still investigating the matter and making effort to arrest other suspects in the case and such they cannot release him on bail or charge him to court until the investigations are over.
“Sir, we were frustrated by the answers given to us by the second in command who appears not to have any iota of regards for anybody and we are left with no other choice but to write you for your immediate and positive intervention before things goes out of hands. “Consequent upon the foregoing sir, we humbly urge you to use your good office to prevail on F-SARS to ensure that the needful is done and on time, so as to prevent further abuse of the fundamental right of our client.
“More, importantly sir, our client is not alleged of murder, armed robbery or any other serious offence but stealing for which he was earlier granted bail by the police at Ikole Division and he never abused the bail.”