David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka
Anambra State Governor, Chief Willie Obiano, has told members of the state House of Assembly on the platform of All Progressives Grand Alliance(APGA) to brace up to face the delegates of the party in a primary election as the party would not hand them automatic tickets. The call was made as a result of recent rumours that the governor has promised all the lawmakers in the party automatic ticket as compensation for their efforts to ensure his reelection in November last year. Obiano, who spoke through his Senior Special Assistant on Social Media, Mr. Ifeanyi Aniagoh, said the governor, who he described as a democrat, would not condescend to hand picking candidates for APGA. In a statement, Aniagoh said the governor never made such remarks, urging lawmakers in the state who wished to recontest for their position to be ready for face the delegates of the party. Part of the statement read: “The publication that the governor has promised return tickets for members of state House of Assembly in appreciation of their support for his reelection is a fake, malicious and false propaganda aimed at confusing the unsuspecting public. “It is on record that Obiano is a highly democratic leader whose love for due process has made Anambra one of the most transparent states in Nigeria. “Under his present leadership as the National Leader and Chairman, Board of Trustees (BoT) of the party, APGA has strengthened to the extent of winning elections in Bayelsa, Abia, Imo and Taraba States as well as clinching a chairmanship seat within the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). “To maintain this rapid development, all assembly members wishing to go for another term and other aspirants shall present themselves for primary election by the people in accordance with the provisions of APGA constitution.” He urged the public to disregard such publication and its propagators, as APGA was not ready to indulge in such dictatorship that has been the bane of other political parties in the country.