Although the current administration came into power on a wave of popular appeal and promise of change, many analysts believe that the expectations of Nigerians have largely not been met in terms of development. With the ever increasing yearly budget figures and huge allocations to capital expenditure and projects, has the government at federal and other levels met your identified development expectations? What should be done?    ABIMBOLA AKOSILE    * Our development expectations have not been met. The five fundamentals of economic growth of: 24-hour electricity; good roads network; efficient transport system by road, sea and air; adequate overall security, and low interest rates so that small scale businesses can thrive are yet to be achieved and hence development is still at a very slow pace in Nigeria. The leadership in our dear country needs to be more serious about making Nigeria to be to Africa what America is to the world: truly great and prosperous. This can only be achieved when we do away with the monsters of poor leadership, corruption, electoral fraud, impunity, ethnicity etc. God bless Nigeria. – Mr. Odey Ochicha, Leadership Specialist, Abuja  * Not at all. We need true leaders with stakes in our national advancement. We need not look far, they are amongst us and it is time to take back our right to life in this country. We are not slaves and therefore cannot be enslaved in our own nation, no. – Ms Nkeiruka Abanna, Lagos State  * No, Government at the Federal and other levels have not met the development expectations, because various security challenges have been the order of the day, with raging poverty and killer herdsmen ravaging farming communities. Though the Federal Government was able to complete some critical infrastructural and public utilities, other numerous things need to be done. This leadership has failed Nigerians, and they have to ensure provision of equipment for peasant farmers to boost agricultural practices, pay severance packages of civil servants and increase in salaries, and provide amenities such as good roads, housing, improvement in electricity generations, social welfare for Nigerian citizens and effective transportation schemes. – Mr. Michael Adedotun Oke, Founder Michael Adedotun Oke Foundation, Federal Capital Territory, Abuja  * My major expectation from the government is 24 hours electricity supply, but it seems even in this century, we still can’t achieve that…it’s so pathetic. – Mr. Adewumi Temitope, Agroshowroom, Osun State  * I’m more concerned about the state level and the answer is no as my development expectations have not been met and can still be met. Our governor (El-Rufai) upon assuming office promised to fix the road in Romi that passes from Poly Quarters through Karatudu to Federal Hosing that is so terrible but up till now, nothing of such has been done. It’s said that whatever you plant, same shall be harvested. – Hon. Babale Maiungwa, U/Romi, Kaduna  * My expectations have not been met because there’s still high unemployment, insecurity, poor dividends of democracy in most states across the country and the 774 Local Government Areas of Nigeria. I am also sad that political leaders are yet to realise that they are servants of the people and not their masters. – Mr. Feyisetan Akeeb Kareem, CDHR, Aniocha South, Delta State  * Yes. Security, agriculture, education, social infrastructure, intelligence and information management including the news media, justice, job creation, health etc have all received appreciable boost and attention at their respective constituencies so far. The problem is pockets of high profile saboteurs in virtually all government departments. The corrupt treasury looters have been fleecing tax payers’ collective purse. Government has left no stone unturned bringing looters to book without fear or favour. God bless Nigeria. – Miss Apeji Patience Eneyeme, Badagry, Lagos State  * When the PMB government got off the ground I personally didn’t think the world of it because it had gotten infiltrated by those very people who seem to have stymied our advancement. Therefore, if I’m asked whether my expectations have been met, my response is simply this: did I truly have any expectations or any desires to be met from the word go? – Mr. E. Iheanyi Chukwudi, B.A.R., Apo, Abuja  * The thing is that Nigerians, including myself, had so many expectations when this administration came into power. But, rather than meet those needs, the government has only worsened the plight of citizens in different ways. Even the anti-corruption war is selective and ineffectual. Now it is hard to be surprised by anything coming from this government good or bad. – Mr. Olumuyiwa Olorunsomo, Lagos State  * This government had hoped that there were resources to ensure development of Nigeria but past governments had emptied our treasury before leaving office. It is not yet time to write this government off because of the challenges Nigerians are facing because there will be light at the end of the tunnel in a short while since we are out of recession. Our security agencies should live up to expectation over the insecurity situation in the country because this is a threat to our democracy and intending investors who want to come to Nigeria. – Mr. Gordon Chika Nnorom, Public Commentator, Umukabia, Abia State  * No. Although the current administration is pulling its weight in many vital areas, there is still vast room for improvement. Financial mismanagement needs emergency attention through transparent honesty and patriotism. More than N13 million entering the pockets of our House members monthly and unaccounted for is the height of insensitivity, plundering, callousness, e.t.c. especially at this otiose time of economic quagmire. Our Senate is too expensive and so must be checked now. A stitch in time saves nine. – Mr. Apeji Onesi, Lagos State  * With the menace of mercenaries annexing villages in the North central part of the country, not much has changed on security issues. On power, the 7,000 megawatts being generated but has not led to even a slight improvement supply to the end user is not really worth celebrating. However, agricultural production appears to have improved. Although the fight against corruption in terms of successful prosecution has been rendered as ineffective as the last administration, preventing corruption before it happens through the implementation of TSA and blocking of leakages has helped to reduce corruption in a proactive way. – Mr. Buga Dunj, Jos, Plateau State  * 18 persons died last Sunday in a fatal accident along the Lagos-Ibadan highway. Every week, deaths are recorded on this highway and other roads. There is no better way to experience under-development than in bad roads, near-zero electric supply, challenged health facilities, high unemployment and diminished educational system. Consistent poor and low funding of sensitive sectors ensure that development is arrested. That is where Nigeria is locked since 1999. – Mr. Anonymous, Lagos State      THE FEEDBACK  Yes, they have: 1 No, they haven’t: 7 Others: 5 Radical tip: Change leaders!! Total no of respondents: 13 Male: 11 Female: 2 Highest location: Lagos (5)     Next Week: Which Election Order’ll Ensure Good Governance?  The issue of the order of general elections come 2019 has recently generated heat between the Legislature and the Executive, with both arms seemingly seeking to protect and extend their tenures in the general polls. However, opinions differ on this and an analyst even wants all the general elections to be held on the same week-day! Since the focus of elections is to elect sincere leaders who will deliver good governance into public office, which order of elections can truly ensure good governance in Nigeria?      Please make your response direct, short and simple, and state your full name, title, organisation, and location. Responses should be sent between today (March 22 & Monday, March 26) to abimbolayi@yahoo.com, greatbimbo@gmail.com, AND abimbola.akosile@thisdaylive.com. Respondents can also send a short text message to 08023117639 and/or 08188361766 and/or 08114495306. Collated responses will be published on Thursday, March 29    