Kasim Sumaina in Abuja In an attempt to prevent Cervical Cancer amongst women, the Isabella Ayuk Foundation (IAF), recently carried out free medical service to detect early signs, thereby reducing disease related death in the country. The Founder of IAF and former Most Beautiful Girl in Nigeria, Miss Isabella Ayuk, made this known during a commemoration of International Day for Women and to also screen and vaccinate women against Cervical Cancer.
The event which took place at the Primary Health Care, Ushafa Community in Bwari, Federal Capital Territory, FCT, saw about 100 women given free examination screening to detect the disease. According to her, “Regular screening will help reduce cancer-related burdens and its consequent death rate in our society, and that is what we have decided to do for the women in this community. “If identification of an ailment is done early enough, treatment could commence, leaving one with better chances of survival.” She hinted that, if those who were diagnosed of cancer at a later stage had prior knowledge of the availability of cancer detection screening, they would have been able to access early treatment. She added that, “Our belief supports the knowledge that early detection is a great tool to fighting and surviving cancer and this forum also aimed to sensitise women of reproductive age on the need to go for periodic cervical cancer checks, whether they felt sick or not.” Ayuk further said, “Normally, my foundation, what we do, we go into rural areas to educate women on the impact and dangers of cervical cancer and how it can be prevented. “On my own, I have been doing this for a year but, this is the very first time that I’m going all out. Just like I said initially, as MBGN, I didn’t know anything about cervical cancer. “I didn’t Know what HPV, Human Papilloma Virus is, I took ill at sometime and I have to be directed to the National Hospital where I met Dr. Chima, who happens to be my foundation doctor and I was asked to go meet Dr. Chima for Papilloma Virus screening and because I didn’t know about it, I went and I have to start asking questions. I was like, doctor, why was I asked to meet you for Papi screening, as far, as I’m concerned, there is nothing about me that has to do with Papi, you are supposed to be treating me on malaria, typhoid which are one of the common sickness. Doctor started talking to me about Cervical Cancer and HPV. So, when I left there, I said okay, I could use my platform to educate the women on how it can be prevented.”