Mohammed Aminu in Sokoto A group, All Progressives Congress (APC) Adalci Buhari Sak, Sokoto state, on Saturday urged Governor Aminu Tambuwal, to give an account to the people of the state on the over N100 billion debt inherited from the immediate past administration of Senator Aliyu Wamakko. It also gave Tambuwal 48- hours ultimatum to either declare support for President Muhammad Buhari’s 2019 re-election bid or make his stand known to the public. Addressing journalists at the NUJ Press Centre in Sokoto, its Chairman, Prof. Muhammad Lawal Bashar, challenged the governor to make the debt profile of the state known to the public. According to him, the group is committed to transparency and accountability and as such determined to know the actual debt profile of Sokoto. “The time has come for the citizens of Sokoto state to rise and demand accountability from their elected officers. Therefore, the governor should make our debt profile public especially the debt he collected on our behalf that caused crisis in the State house of Assembly recently,” Bashar said. He accused the governor of anti-party activities by hobnobbing with the leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party across the country. Bashar insisted that Tambuwal should take a stand on whether to support Buhari or otherwise. “We are giving the governor two days to declare whether he is for Buhari or not. Since Tambuwal took over the mantle of leadership, he has been romancing with PDP governors and leaders. “In fact, the recent appointments of special assistants in Sokoto state are mainly for PDP card-carrying members and Buhari’s sworn enemies within the APC,” he lamented. The chairman further accused the governor and the existing party structure in the state of plans to thwart President Buhari’s 2019 ambition through subterfuge. “We wish to express our support to Buhari’s second term bid as committed party faithful. We strongly oppose any move by the existing party structure in the state to thwart Buhari’s 2019 ambition. “Having endured intimidation against Buhari’s supporters in Sokoto by desperate political opportunists who rode on his popularity to their positions. We shall leave them with no chance to repeat those clandestine actions,” he stated. He urged the National leadership of the APC to reconstitute the state executive council of the party in line with the merger agreement that produced the APC. Bashar added that the group would continue to offer constructive criticism to the government in order to liberate the masses of the state from bad governance.