Hammed Shittu in Ilorin Operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) thursday arraigned two Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officers in Kwara State, Christian Nwosu and Tijani Nda Bashiru at the State High Court, Ilorin for alleged criminal breach of trust in respect of N817.6 million fraud. The money was said to have been entrusted to them in their capacity while serving as public officers at the INEC office, Ilorin, the state capital between 2013 and 2015. The breakdown of the alleged involvement of the affected officials showed that, Mr. Tijani Nda Bashiru, was charged with criminal breach of trust in respect of total sum of N77 million, while Christian Nwosu, was accused of misappropriation of N4.9 million. The accused persons were said to have committed the offence between February 27, 2013 and 2015 while in the employment of the INEC, Ilorin contrary to and punishable under Sections 97, 315, 308, and 309 of the Penal Code.
The two accused persons pleaded not guilty to the charges preferred against them. The counsel to the EFCC, Mr. Rotimi Oyedepo, told the court the list of eight witnesses he intended to call for evidence, including one Abdulrahman Adebayo Abdulganiyu, who he said would give evidence of how his bank account was allegedly used to warehouse the proceeds of the alleged offences. While making oral application for bail, counsel to the defendants, Obinna Okereke and Nelson Imoh, prayed the court to grant the two accused persons bail, saying that the offences with which they were charged are bailable offences.
The counsel who also said that the defendants had been in the EFCC custody since February 7, 2018, added that they were rearrested in Lagos court. Opposing the bail application, prosecution counsel said that the accused persons may obstruct course of investigation, considering evidence he had against them. In his ruling, the presiding judge, Justice Sikiru Oyinloye, later granted each of the accused persons N50 million bail condition, saying that they should provide two sureties each in like sum. He added that their sureties should have landed property within the jurisdiction. Justice Oyinloye added that they should depose to verified and satisfied bail bond, provide statement of account as at today (Thursday) submit their current photographs individually and collectively, deposit their travel document.
He said that the bail could be revoked if the accused persons failed to adhere to terms upon which it was granted. The court then ordered that the defendants should be remanded in prison custody, pending when they meet the bail conditions. The case was adjourned till 26 and 27 of April, 2018 for hearing.