The Coal City of Enugu has become a beehive of activities as the cast and the production crew of thesensational TV drama series, Professor John bull, sponsored by Globacom, storm the camp to begin the shooting of Season 6 of the series. Information at our disposal indicated that the first set of cast and crew arrived Enugu last Friday while the remaining members joined mid-week. A member of the production crew said, “I can confirm to you that virtually everybody is on ground and shooting has commenced in earnest for Season Six”. Produced by Tchidi Chikere,  Professor Johnbull, an episodic situational comedy, is woven round the family of a retired Professor, Professor Johnbull, acted by Kanayo O. Kanayo, who resides in a neighbourhood in Enugu with his daughter, Elizabeth (Queen Nwokoye), his househelp, Nje (Angela Okorie) and his kinsman, Jeroboam, aka Boam (Osita Iheme), with his house becoming the people’s court and a melting pot for his neighbours who come around to resolve all manner of issues. The cast is made up of prominent Nollywood stars such as Yomi Fash Lanso, who plays the role of a restauranteur, Olaniyi; Funky Mallam, who acts Mai Doya, the yam seller; his sales girl, Bimbo Akintola, known as Ufoma in the series, and Professor Johnbull’s security man, Martins Nebo (Abadnego). Others are Jumoke, acted by Bidemi Kosoko; Etuk (Imeh Bishop); Flash (Stephen Odimgbe), and Samson (Ogus Baba). Veterans such as Chief Chika Okpala, a.k.a. Zebrudayah, Patience Ozokwor, a.k.a. Mama G, and Richard Mofe-Damijo (RMD) had at one time or another made cameo appearances in the series. Chief Okpala and RMD are consultants to the production crew of the series. The programme airs on NTA Network, NTA International on DSTV Channel 251 and NTA on StarTimes on Tuesdays at 8.30 p.m. with a repeat broadcast on Fridays on the same channels and time. A  season of Professor Johnbull is made up of 13 episodes. 2019: CAN Prays for Ugwuanyi’s Re-election The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Enugu State chapter has conducted special prayers for the re-election of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi in 2019 and God’s continued favour on him. Rising from a “mega prayer rally”, tagged: “Enugu State is in the Hands of God”, which was attended by the leaders of the five blocs in CAN Enugu State, namely, Most Rev. Dr. Calistus Onaga of the CSN (represented by Rev. Fr. Dr. Donatus Onuigbo); Most Rev. Dr. Emmanuel O. Chukwuma of the CCN; Bishop Obi Onubuogu of CPFN/PFN; Rev. Michael Ebonine of OAIC and Rev. Emmanuel Edeh of ECWA/TEKAN, the chairman of the association, Rt. Rev. Christian Obiefuna in his address  assured Ugwuanyi that “your second tenure is in the hands of God” and “it is safe with Him because you have acknowledged Him.” Disclosing that the rally’s prayer theme “originated from the doctrinal and ideological principles” of Gov. Ugwuanyi, the Christian body commended the governor for his commitment to God and entrenchment of peace and good governance in Enugu State, stating that he pays workers’ salaries regularly, provides infrastructure and security, etc, in spite of “the dwindling economy” and “meager resources” of the state. CAN Enugu State described Ugwuanyi as a “God-fearing” leader and stated that the association was  “proud to identify with a man whose slogan is Enugu State is in the Hands of God”, saying, “Be assured of our support and supplications to God for a successful, peaceful transition and fulfillment of your heart desires for Enugu State”. The body added that the prayer rally was “our own contribution to support the good governance in Enugu State under the supervision of His Excellency, Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi”, stressing that it is imperative to ensure that the state continues to be in the Hands of God in “principle and practice”. “Beloved, truly, Enugu State is in the Hands of God. It is imperative that our efforts should be that Enugu State shall continue to be in the Hands of God in principle and practice. CAN is not a political party and shall not act as such. “Our role is to encourage all believers in Christ to fear and respect God in all our dealings in public and private for inheritance of eternal life and to pray for those in authority for good governance, as the heart of the king is in the hands of the Lord”, said CAN Enugu State. Responding, Ugwuanyi, who thanked God for His grace in the state, also appreciated the leaders and members of CAN for coming out in their large numbers to pray for him and the success of his administration. The governor revealed that God was the secret of his administration’s success, stating that “ever since we handed Enugu State over to God, we can see the hands of God in all we do”. He expressed gratitude to members of all the churches in Enugu State and urged them to continue to remember his administration in prayers as it strives to take the state to the next level. The event also witnessed prayer session by leaders of CAN blocs, praise worships, choir ministrations, among others.