By George Okoh in Makurdi Former President of the Senate,  David Mark has charged  Nigerians to get their voters cards and brace up for  change in the 2019 elections. He made the call at Ugbokolo in Okpokwu local government of Benue State during the funeral service of the wife of the former minister of Interior, Abba Moro, Mrs. Lynda yesterday. The former Senate President agreed with the sermon of the officiating priest who called on the people of the state and Nigerian to heed the advice of the Rev Father. Earlier, President  of Catholic Diocesan Priests of Nigeria, Rev. Fr. Sylvester Onmoke had lamented the security problem across  country occasioned by herdsmen killings and kidnapping, called on Nigerians to get their voters cards and use it wisely in the coming elections. The priest had described Nigeria as a country in mourning following incessant killings being witnessed across the country. He said he was ashamed that the government had become docile as it watched helplessly while the country bled on a daily basis. The clergy said that President Muhammadu Buhari had made assurances to do something to stop the killings during the visit of Catholic bishops to him at Aso Rock but regretted that instead for the killings to abate, it had continued to increase. He urged Nigerians to continue to pray for the country to overcome the present insecurity situation and advised Catholics to arm themselves with rosaries. He advised school owners, educators, including Catholics and Methodists to close their schools early enough to enable children return home peacefully. Reverend Onmoke who said the Catholic Church would never be silent about injustice, condemned the killings, especially the one going on in Benue State, particularly the recent one in sleepy Omusu village of Okpokwu local government which claimed about 24 lives. “How would they have driven to Omusu and nobody detected them. It is not enough to send soldiers…A fellow Fulani man will not allow a Fulani soldier to kill a Fulani man. “We will continue to pray because the God we serve is a warrior and he will never abandon his people. “I’m not a politician but I’m speaking the mind of the people; we should all go out and register because our country is bleeding. “Thank God that the tenure of elected leaders is four years and three years is gone and we are still dangling with killings and kidnapping without development, we should all go out to register to vote, when you vote remain at polling unit until your vote is counted,” he admonished. Immediate past Governor of Benue, Gabriel Suswam also thanked the Rev Father for his timely sermon and called on all eligible voters in the state to get their voters cards to make good change in forth-coming general elections. Chief Mourner Moro appreciated and thanked all Nigerians for coming to mourn with him.