 Fidelity Bank Plc has restated its commitment to developing products and platforms to meet the ever-changing needs of its 21 century customers. Managing Director of the bank, Mr. Nnamdi Okonkwo, stated this in Lagos, at the 2018 Social Media Week held in Lagos recently. “I’m very pleased to be here at the Fidelity Digital Takeover as part of the celebration for the 6th edition of the Social Media Week. When I walked in here today, a lot of the millennials were wondering what those of us who are not millennials were doing here. “You see, we provide services; we lead people and most of the population of Nigeria are youths. “So if we have to provide financial services for this class of people you need to understand their buyer needs; you must understand their customer’s preferences; you must understand what is important to them,” Okonkwo said. He added: “More importantly, a lot of youths actually live on the social media. So if we’re going to engage them, you have to understand what they actually need.” He noted that the bank had over the years proven itself as a youth inclined financial institution, explaining that, that resulted in tremendous growth being witnessed in its digital banking space. The bank chief disclosed that the bank is recruiting about 36 people to man its digital banking segment, stressing that as a financial institution, it would stay on top of changes and work closely with the millennials. “So it’s just one of the ways we’re responding to the transformation going on in the banking industry driven by needs of millennials.” He said social media has brought people closer, adding, “we can exchange knowledge, we can interact, we can express who we are, we can express our opinions. So indeed, closer together we stay.” Also speaking during the panel session, the Chief Executive Officer of EbonyLife TV, Mo Abudu, said: “Millennials need to understand there’s a real world outside of social media. They need to go out. They need to stop complaining and start acting.” According to her, millennials are guilty of staying indoors and connecting with their circles instead of going to take what they want.