SUPER SATURDAY Suave and sensational, Shina Peller, is a popular socialite who runs a thriving night club in Lagos. The Oyo-born business man and the son of late renowned Nigerian magician, Prof. Peller, is moving from the social scene to the political arena. In this interview with Timilehin Ajagunna, the Quilox owner talks about his interest in politics and his brand of public service •I Have Spent Two Decades Giving Back to Society, Immortalising Peller’s Name • Why I’m Going into Politics .… What informed your decision to go into politics? Someone once said, if you’re not interested in politics, politics is interested in you. Having a private life that is gradually being impacted by the decadence in the political sphere, it gets to a point whereby one must react to the stimuli in the environment.I have embarked on several social projects over the years as an individual and through my foundation but is now clear to me that the only way I can impact the generality of people is if I am part of the policy making and implementation process, It is no longer possible to seat back and bask in comfort while so many are poor, downtrodden and less privileged. This is why I am venturing into politics. You are coming out at a time the country is going through a turbulent political experience. Do you see yourself fitting well into the system? Let me correct a notion, the decay in the political system as we speak, is due to the fact that everybody who ventures into politics wants to fit in well into the system. The clarion call is not for us to fit into the system but to stand out and effect change that will bring development to all and sundry. My use of ‘change’ is not a flagging off a political banner but the reality of the next serious step we need to see as a nation. I personally see the system changing from the norm, from what it used to be to what it should really be. I believe this is the time for young people to play an active role in politics especially successful entrepreneurs and technocrats amongst us. It’s time to put round pegs in round holes. We have to take control of our destinies. So, what are your goals? I may or may not yield to the tremendous pressure to represent my people in an elective position but I will be actively involved in the political process. I will be involved in decisions that affect the people. I don’t want to be a hypocrite shouting from the sidelines. I want to encourage all the young people to get involved in the political process, to join a party; to run for office; support candidates with integrity; to do nothing is no longer an option. My immediate goal is to ensure that all the young people get their voter cards and prepare to for elections. The second step is to ensure that we pick the right candidates and support them; people with integrity and vision must rule us. So if more young people get involved in politics through my influence then I would have achieved a major objective. In the long term, I want to help entrench a system that ensures the right people get into office. It is extremely difficult in Nigeria for intellectuals and technocrats to get into political office today; and this is the root of our political misfortunes. Politics must be about capacity, values, and ideologies – not just cash or religious and tribal considerations. You’re not as a card-carrying member of any political party. Can you tell us the party you belong to? I recently joined the APC because I can associate with their progressive ideologies. Are you aspiring for any political office? Like I said there is tremendous pressure from my constituency to represent them but I am weighing my options and consulting with stakeholders at the moment. Lately, you have been involved in a lot of public activities in your hometown, Iseyin. How would you describe the disposition of your people towards you? I must confess. I feel great at home that’s why I have been involved in several developmental projects and charitable causes both in Lagos and Oyo. I also realised that initiating developmental programmes is an ideal way of expressing my love for the grass roots. The reception, I must confess, has always been encouraging. I must say that I have been involved in charitable causes for over two decades because I believe strongly in giving back and immortalising the Peller name. There have been a lot of private businessmen who had ventured into politics in the past. Some of them didn’t find it easy. Do you think your case will be different? First of all, life is easy if you have a clear vision, good intentions, and the passion to execute them. Life is like a business and the correlation between risk and reward is a core factor but even the best forecasts sometimes go wrong. If things don’t go according to plan you simply re-strategise and move on. I am a religious person; my intentions are pure. So, if things don’t work according to plan I will accept it as the will of God. You are a socialite; how much do you think politics will affect your social life? Socializing can be a refined and converted tool to achieving the general influence in society. Of course, there’s time for everything; a time to be solemn with responsibility. But socialising can also be a subtle means to that end. I will purposefully and creatively regulate my social life. What if the personalities I need to achieve these goals at hand are pitched in some social circle? My experience of social life will make it easier for me to reach out. I see my social life as a tool that can come in handy. What is your assessment of the APC government at the federal level and in Oyo State? Times are hard. Challenges that the government has to deal with are huge but surmountable. At both the state and national level the administrations are doing their best despite limited resources. But obviously more can still be done. If we can focus on what matters in this country, it won’t be hard for us to nip our problems in the bud. What are those things your people stand to gain as you carry on with your new political moves? I would like to call them transformational moves. Political moves have not helped us in this nation, or any nation – I doubt. My people will benefit greatly from great initiatives where industrial and socio-economic collaborations are deployed to empower the minds and hands of people for national transformation. We will pull it through together – the people and my team.