…I will not disappoint my people, says Ogbemudia, only female chairman-elect Governor of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has said that the new helmsmen at the local councils in Edo State will deepen his brand of strategic leadership at the 18 local councils, to ensure that those at the grassroots enjoy result-oriented governance. The governor, who said this during a Thanksgiving Service at the St. Paul’s Catholic Church, Airport Road, Benin City, on Sunday, stressed that the ‘wake and see’ phenomenon of leadership will now be felt by those at the grassroots across the state. Speaking after the service, Obaseki said that the All Progressives Congress (APC) will introduce the same quality of service he is pioneering at the state level, in the local government through the new chairmen and councilors. According to him, “That is why our party, the APC, decided to field candidates we know are very credible, and are people with experience to take charge of the affairs of our local government areas. “So, we are quite excited and happy, and assure the people of Edo State that the new heads at the local governments will render services to the people that will surpass what they have seen before. “We will want to deepen the ‘Wake and See’ concept of programme execution. We want to make sure that the same spirit gets to the local government areas,” he added. Some of the new local government chairpersons who attended the service are Ogbemudia Eghe of Egor Local Government Area (LGA); John Akhigbe of Etsako Central LGA; Destiny Enabulele of Ovia South West LGA; Jenkins Osunde of Oredo LGA and Eric Osayande of Ikpoba Okha LGA. The Parish Priest, Reverend Father, Edwin Omorogbe commended the state government for organising the elections to enable the people choose those to lead them at the local government areas. He expressed appreciation to the governor for spearheading the campaign against human trafficking and illegal migration, noting that the church was worried about the trend and was committed to ensuring that the incidence is brought to a halt. “We are committed to end the scourge of illegal migration. The Archbishop Augustine Akubeze of Benin Archdiocese has thrown his weight behind the governor’s campaign and we are happy he is battling the ugly trend. “At the same time, we appreciate the state for organising the local government elections. The turnout showed that the people are concerned about electing who they see on a daily basis. So, the charge is now for these new heads not to disappoint,” he said. The only female chairperson-elect, Eghe Ogbemudia,  said that she wouldn’t disappoint her people for reposing confidence in her and trooping out to vote for her. “I appreciate the people for coming out en mass yesterday. This confidence reposed in me will not go to waste. I promise not to disappoint my people,” she pledged.