Lekki British School hosted week two of the Dolphin Swimming League as the initiative continue to garner momentum with large turnout of stakeholders craving support of corporate organisations and well-meaning to sustain the league. The Lagos team and five other schools are competing for honours in the inaugural edition of the developmental championships designed to unearth new talents and improve the technical knowhow of coaches.
A total of 59 events were decided on the day with participants putting in their best in the pool with the hope to get better as the league progresses.
Although, some of the participants represented their schools in an international competition – the world school games in Dubai, United Arab Emirates last month, the dream of the organisers is to produce medal hopefuls for swimming at the 2024 Olympic Games in Paris.
Head of School, Lekki British School, Ashish Gill said apart from giving participants opportunity to develop talent, active participation in sports will keep the children away from negative influence and help them to build functional skills that will useful in the future. “It is a brilliant concept by Dynaspro Sports I congratulate them for bringing the swimming league and getting a lot of international schools and the Lagos state team to compete. It is s great opportunity for children to meet, participate and bring out the real talent in the course of the competition. Of course, sports bring out the real character in the field, sportsmanship, leadership qualities, accepting victory in humility and accepting defeat in a situation that you can do better next time. These are some of the values that are not just building blocks for now but also for the future as well” Gill said.
President of the Nigeria Aquatics Federation, Babatunde Fatayi-Williams described the atmosphere at the Lekki British School, excellence for the schools competition. Fatayi-Williams who is also the second Vice President of the Nigeria Olympic Committee expressed optimism that the Dolphin Swimming League will produce world beaters in not too distant future. Fatayi-Williams said “The whole idea of the league is very good because it provides regular competitions for children if it can be sustained. The children will progress and develop skills, techniques, build stamina and competitive spirit. A lot of schools want to join and that would mean more expenses for the organisers. I appeal to sponsors to support because it is difficult to organise tournament of this magnitude. The organisers need funding so the more sponsors are coming, the better for the competition. The Aquatics Federation is very much behind the league and we will continue to give technical support and in other areas when required”. Participating schools are taking turn to host the league with Lagos Preparatory School, Ikoyi already hosted the opening day of competition. According to the Chief Executive Officer of Dynaspro Sports Academy, Oluseyi Oyebode, Children International School, Lekki will stage week three events.
The other schools competing in the league are St. Saviour Schools, Ikoyi and Greenville Schools, GRA Ikeja. The Dolphin Swimming League is supported by Elizade University, Skin Beauty, Sofisticat and Sweet Sensation.