As Nigerians celebrate Easter, the Nigerian police wednesday said they have deployed personnel across the country to checkmate any break down of law and order. Police Public Relations Officer, Jimoh Moshood, explained that “the Inspector General of Police (IG), Ibrahim K. Idris, and the entire personnel of the Nigeria Police Force felicitates with Christian faithful throughout the country on the occasion of this year’s Easter celebration. According to him, “Consequently, the IG has directed Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIG) in charge of zonal commands and Commissioners of Police nationwide to be on ground throughout the celebration to supervise and implement the robust security arrangements and massive deployment of police personnel throughout the country for crime prevention and control, so as to ensure crime and hitch-free celebration. “The deployment of the police personnel for crime prevention and crowd control will cover places of worships, recreation centres and venues of celebration as well as other public and private places and facilities. “Consistent surveillance, intelligence gathering and continuous raid of criminal hideouts, black spots, flash/ vulnerable points are already ongoing and will be sustained throughout the period. Vehicular and foot patrols and adequate visibility policing will also be embarked upon to guarantee safety of lives and property throughout the period. Moshood said: “Members of the public are hereby implored to cooperate with the personnel of the police highway patrol teams, the Special Anti-robbery Squads and other police units deployed to prevent crime on the highways and major roads across the country as they are under instructions to be civil, polite but firm in ensuring the security and safety of travellers and other road users throughout the country. “The Nigeria Police Force is therefore assuring all Nigerians of its renewed commitment to ensure adequate safety of lives and property during this period and beyond. “The IG, while wishing all Christians across the country a happy Easter celebration, enjoins them to extol the virtues of Jesus Christ by propagating peace, demonstrating love with their fellow citizens, irrespective of religious, ethnic or political inclination.”