Senator Iroegbu in Abuja The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara, and his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) have felicitated with Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, on the occasion of his 61st birthday anniversary, describing him as a man who epitomises humility, intelligence and patriotism. In a congratulatory message he personally signed to mark Osinbajo’s 61st birthday anniversary, Dogara extolled the virtues of the vice president and saluted his unalloyed loyalty, dedication and commitment to the Nigerian project.
“You have demonstrated abiding faith in the unity and growth of this great nation, and exhibited unwavering loyalty. You have not left any one in doubt about your impeccable leadership qualities and capacity to diligently handle matters of national interest, development and progress,” Dogara said. “As a legal luminary of great repute and Senior Advocate of Nigeria, you have brought your vast knowledge, character, pedigree and experience to bear in the discharge of the functions of your office as the vice president and driver of the nation’s economy, the results of which are very visible, impacting and reassuring. “On behalf of the leadership and the entire members of the House of Representatives, I heartily wish you a happy 61st birthday celebration while praying God Almighty to continue to keep you in good health and bless you with many more years in service of the nation.” On its part, the APC in statement by its National Publicity Secretary Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, described Osinbanjo as an erudite lawyer, who introduced reforms to the justice system. Abdullahi said “the sweeping justice reforms Osinbajo undertook as Commissioner for Justice in Lagos State remains one of the celebrated legacies bequeathed to the state and have been replicated in many states in the country.
“The party recalls the strategic and important role Osinbajo played after the formation of the APC in 2013 when he was tasked alongside other notable party members to design and produce our party’s manifesto, culminating in the presentation of the party’s roadmap to a new Nigeria.” According to him, the highly-cerebral Osinbajo has endeared himself to the generality of Nigerians as a team player in the current administration and a very dependable ally of the President. Osinbajo has been a key support base in the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration’s ongoing efforts to deliver on election promises made to Nigerians. APC also wished the vice president the very best in the years ahead in service to the party and the country.