Daji Sani in Yola Residents of Adamawa communities have raised the alarm over some undetonated bombs found in Shaforon, a community in Numan, saying they pose danger to the entire Numan communities.
The alarm is coming barely three months after more than 75 people were allegedly killed in a Nigerian Air Force bombardment of the area. Members of the affected communities are alleging that there are still some undetonated bombs dropped by the air force that are threat to them. In a statement made available to THISDAY wednesday evening by the affected communities and signed by Jonathan Lawrence who is a spokesman of the communities, said there was still an imminent threat from bombs after they discovered three suspected undetonated bombs in one of the affected communities and that there might be more buried within the communities which could pose lethal threat to the people if not detected and detonated. One of the leaders of the community, Prof. Wonotazakan Tagowa, said: “Our community still lives in fear of the multiple bombs that were dropped here by the Nigeria Air Force. “It is important that steps are taken to conduct aerial survey of these communities and identify where the remnants of the bombs are and safely evacuate and detonate them. “Our communities are farming communities and people may step on these things and be killed by them.
“We have found some before and have reported to the relevant authorities who came and detonated them.”
Speaking on the attack, the community’s spokesman, Lawrence said: “The SNEB pods and rockets with high explosive warheads show that NAF used excessive unlawful force against our people. “We are therefore showing Nigerians and the international community that just as Amnesty International reported, there is credible evidence that the NAF raids on our villages had disastrous consequences and those raids were genocidal and constitute crime against humanity.” Lawrence said: “We reject the narrative that the invasion of our villages was within the realm of herders-farmers.”
He explained that the security situation in the area had some clear “manifestations of complicity by government and security agencies.” He said the Numan attack had some notable significance as it was the first in the country where military helicopters, drones and fighter jet were “used to provide aerial cover for Fulani terrorists to kill, maim and destroy property.” The community used the occasion to call on Nigerians to classify the air force attack as “Gross abuse of human rights and acts of genocide crime against humanity.”