 Fidelity Bank Plc has rewarded 12 of its loyal customers with N13 million, in the March edition of its savings promo tagged: ‘Get Alert in Million Reloaded promo draw that took place in Lagos at the weekend. The customers were drawn from its branches across the country. It also gave out refrigerators, television and power generators. The star prize winner was Mr. Ikechi Isreal Nwaobilor, from its Lagos branch, that won N2 million. Others were Oludamilare Emmanuel (NI million); Fridnant Emmanuel (N1 million); Sunday Ajah (N1 million); Onijamu Oladele Segun (N1 million); Ago Dinebari Victor (N1 million); Olajumoke Shittu (N1 million); and Henry Ekene Udeh (N1 million), Ala Andrew Chuar (N1 million); Sani Sule (N1 million); Chukwuemeka Umeji (N1 million); and Mary Okonkwo (N1 million). The Divisional Head, Retail Banking, Fidelity Bank, Richard Madiebo, urged customers and intending customers of the bank to take advantage of the promo. In a related development, Fidelity Bank recently tutored 3,500 students in 31 schools across Nigeria, as part of activities to mark this year’s Global Money week and Financial Literacy Day. The bank’s Managing Director, Mr. Nnamdi Okonkwo, who was represented by its Divisional Head, Brand and Communication, Mr. Charles Aigbe, was at theGovernment Day Secondary School,Lokoja, Kogi State. Also, other senior employees of the bank visited other schools in the country to promote financial literacy. The Financial  Literacy  Day  was set  aside  by  the  CBN  t to focus  on  increasing  the  level  of  awareness  of  the  youth  on  the  importance  of  earning,  managing and saving  money  in order  to have a  secure  future. Fidelity Bank supports the initiative  that  is  targeted  at  getting  more  young  people  to  participate in  the  formal  banking  system  in  order  to  create  financially inclusion. Okonkwo said financial literacy among Nigerians, especially the youth, wouldfoster economic growth and development. Okonkwo noted that financial literacy would help young people gain financial freedom through prudent management of money and clear differentiation of needs and wants.
He explained the initiative was aimed at globally engaging children on aspects of financial education including saving, creating livelihoods, gaining employment and entrepreneurship, adding that it would help develop responsible bankers and bank customers in the future. In addition, he said the programme would make young people make the right financial decision early in life and manage resources responsibly. 