John Shiklamin Kaduna The Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), also known as Shiite, has raised the alarm over the deteriorating health condition of its leader, Sheikh Ibraheem El-Zakzaky. The group also said the federal government would be held responsible should if anything happens to him. Zakzaky and his wife were arrested in December 2015 and has been in detention since then, following a clash between his members and the Nigerian army in Zaria. Over 347 members of the Shiite were killed during the clash and were buried in a mass grave in Mando area of Kaduna. An Abuja HighCourt had in January 2016, ordered the release of the leader of the Shiite. Zakzaky’scounsel, Femi Falana (SAN), had approached the court for a declaration that the continued detention of his client without charging him, was unlawful and a violation of his fundamental human rights. In a statement Saturday, spokesman of the IMN, Ibrahim Musa, expressed deep disatisfaction over Zakzaky’s deteriorating health condition. “In the last couple of days, news of a further deterioration of the health situation of our leader, Sheikh Ibraheem Zakzaky, has filtered through and the government is denying him the necessary urgent medical attention. According to him, Zakzaky who was shot severally years ago, losing his left eye in the process, is at a great risk of losing the other eye except something is done.” Musa said the Shiite leader further “suffered a mild stroke in January this year, caused by stress and psychological trauma he has to face in the illegal detention.
“Let itbe clearly known therefore that, the Federal Government will be held responsible should anything happen to the Sheikh or his wife while in their custody. “While calling on the government to live up to its responsibilities of acting by the rule of law, we seize the opportunity to call for a more concerted efforts by human rights activists, organisations, the international community and the general public to see that Sheikh and his wife regain their freedom.”