John Shiklam in Kaduna
The Chairman of the Arewa Consultation Forum (ACF) and former Inspector General of Police (IG), Alhaji Ibrahim Coomassie, has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to do all within his power to stop the spate of killings and kidnappings across the country. Speaking when a northern women group, Jammiyar Matan Arewa (JMA), paid him a courtesy call at the secretariat of the ACF yesterday in Kaduna, Coomassie lamented the increasing insecurity in the country, especially in the North.
He called on leaders from the region at all levels of governance to change the negative narrative in the region.
According to him, Nigeria cannot survive without the North, stressing that leaders from the region must put their heads together to save it from its present predicament. “Chibok girls are still missing. Now it has gone to Dapchi in Yobe State, what happened? “Are we always going to be the victims? Boko Haram, see what they did to the North-east. They have spread over to the North-central and even to the southern part of the country. “Should we continue to be regarded in the negative side? No. We are leaders in our own right and we must exercise this responsibility for our people,” Coomassie said. He further lamented that whenever there are crisis, women and children are always the major victims.
“Enough is enough, enough of killings of our women and children, enough of kidnapping of our daughters and enough of destruction of our property. We are proud that you have come forward to meet us to discuss this issue,” he said.
Coomassie said the North cannot continue to be on the negative footage at all times as it has been the case since the return of democracy in 1999. Speaking earlier, the Chairperson of JMA, Aishatu Pamela Sadauki, who was represented by Hajiya Aliko Muhammed, said their visit to the ACF was to discuss how to protect children and women in the region from incessant attacks.
She said as mothers, the continued abduction of their children, unwarranted killings particularly in the region has taken an alarming rate and the need to address it.