Teens Connect by Nkechi Ibeneme;  08142358958 – (sms only) The statement by our torchbearer last week that “teenagers shouldn’t own smartphones” set the mode for the great debate between teenagers and parents. Today, we present to you responses of some parents on one hand and teenagers on the other, on the issue: Dr. Abiola Ayankunbi Marketing Management Consultant
They should not own smartphones because they are distractions (even, if some sites are coded or blocked) to their studies and encourage them to depend heavily on smart phones while doing their home works instead of engaging in deep thinking.
It changes everything, from the way the teens relate with others to the way they see themselves.
It can lead to the worst mental-health crisis in decades to come in view of depressive symptoms among today’s teens. Gbenga Omolewa  Banker
A teenager can own a smartphone but with parental guidance and control. With exposure to social life and peer pressure, a teenager wants freedom but needs to be monitored. Under control, knowledge abound on smartphones. If we can control what our teenagers watch on television, we can do same on smart phone. FELICIA OBILO
Retired broadcaster, now Media Consultant
I have raised three well adjusted men and I am so glad Smartphones did not exist when my boys were growing up because it would’ve been a very big issue with me. I am still old school like that! I believe smartphones put too much information at their disposal and opens them up to too many unnecessary things that militate against their process of growing up and just being TEENS. So my answer is NO! I don’t think teenagers should own smart phones. Onyewuchi, J.I. (Mrs)
Librariain/Information Scientists
I’m totally against teenagers owning smartphones due to some ethical implications ranging from cyberbullying to negligence to their school work and extra curricula activities that lead to failure. The teenager plays games, chats and watches pornography. These things destroy social skills like faces-to-face communication that exposes a child.  Owning smartphones limit conversation around the dinner table, instead of intelligent answers to questions, you get few grunts. Lastly, the child may end up being addicted to the social media platforms. Priscilla Chukwuegu
Guidance Counselor
It is not safe for teenagers to own smart phones; it is a big distraction to them. Some of them even smuggle the gadget to school and would be fiddling with it during classes, even when the school authority had banned the use of phones in the class.  Sometimes, you see students pressing their phones while walking home from school at the risk of being knocked down by a vehicle or a bike. Rose Enyim
Teacher
Teenagers who are eighteen and above – the age when they are legally responsible for their actions; should be allowed the use of smart phones.
Others below eighteen years, who must use the internet for the purpose of research, should do so under close supervision of parents/guardians. Uzochuwkwu Douglas.I.
Principal
Smartphones have come to stay and therefore the question should rather be how should teens use this technology? We must teach our children how to choose the good and reject the evil. That’s discipline. Access to smartphones can both be beneficial and destructive. Our basic challenge as parents, teachers and policymakers is how to find creative ways to adapt to the demands of our time. We need to weigh the options carefully before providing smartphones to teenagers. Onuweri Raphael
Advertising Consultant
Teenagers should not be allowed to use smartphones.   Aside from the distractions, smartphones expose people to sites and things that may not be necessary for them.  While adults can handle such, teenagers may not be able to. The good, the bad and the ugly come with smart phones. While some television programmes come with caveat, contents on smartphones are uncensored and bursts right in your face as you operate the gadget. Our teenagers need protection. Juliet Anyanwu
Business woman
Yes they should, but under strong supervision. In the world we live in now, if a phone isn’t smart, then it’s not a phone. But, before handing over such phones to them, there should be a contractual agreement on cut-off time. They shouldn’t use the gadget past 7pm. Even Bill Gates once stated that he regulates the use of smartphones by his children. Rose Enyim
Teacher
Teenagers who are eighteen and above – the age when they are legally responsible for their actions; should be allowed the use of smart phones.
Others below eighteen years, who must use the internet for the purpose of research, should do so under close supervision of parents/guardians. Master Obakemi Great, 16
Teenagers should not own smartphones until they have been given proper tutelage on their dangers. Such dangers include: answering a call with the gas cooker on, charging a phone and placing it next to your head while sleeping, leaving earphones plugged with high volume while crossing the road, among others. Miss Imoluamen Mercy, 15
The society we live in has been literarily computerised. That is, technology has virtually taken over every single thing in the society. Therefore, teenagers should not be left out in this great and important phase. Teenagers should own smartphones for safety, the need to be updated academically, socially and to be exposed to varieties of opportunities. Miss Onuweri Oghenefejiro, 15
I strongly believe a teenager owning a smartphone is not bad because there are many benefits which includes communication in times of emergency. A teenager in the scene of an accident, robbery or other related emergencies can easily contact a rescue personnel, family member or relative to save the day.  Also, many new subjects are added to school curriculum and teenagers (students) with smartphones would have unlimited access to the internet thereby making research on the new subjects easier. Miss Onyejekwe Ruth, 16
Teenagers should not own smartphones because they tend to spend more time pinging and surfing the Internet than reading their books. These make them perform poorly in their studies. They are also exposed to cybercrimes and the desire to take up indecent careers like nude photo shoots in the guise of modeling as some ‘celebrities’ do. Onodugo Gosife, 12
This depends on the financial capability of the guardians and parents. Research, assignments and projects all rely on technology now. Back then, information was slow and inefficient, presently, it is just finger tips away. So, there is no reason why teenagers shouldn’t be allowed to have smartphones. Chukwuneke Chiamaka, 12
Teenagers shouldn’t own smartphones. We are easily distracted and can lose focus of our studies, not to mention addiction when every football, or fashion update is available. It has also been scientifically proved that the light which emits from a phone’s screen can affect the eyes and the brain. It is really alarming how parents readily arm their children with weapons that not only kill the children, but themselves too. Denzel Muonagor, 14
Presently, notes are outdated, the trend is gadgets and tablets to enhance learning. Apps on phones help a lot academically because of some features, as opposed to laboring in the library, with a single click of button one can access all the knowledge he/she desires. Moreover, teenagers embrace socialisation and always love to keep in touch they should be allowed to own smartphone. Udechukwu Kamsiyo
Teenagers, they say, are leaders of tomorrow. So now should they be equipped with smartphones? Yes, so they can be better prepared for the future and gain early access to the world. Now would you be happy if your child at 18 can’t use a smartphones? Of course you wouldn’t. Okeke Kachi, 13
Yes, they should; one main reason being  the present economy, the highest money makers are those who take part in the ICT world, and they all started from an early age. Thus, people use their phones to practice (PC too) including teenagers. They should own smart phones. Ijeoma Ikeobi, 15
I think teenagers should own smartphones. The world today is a global village, for one to be up to date, he/she should own at least one electronic device. Though this might have its disadvantages, let’s look on the bright side. It can help us with homework and projects via the internet. Also, a smartphone can be a life saver. If one finds oneself in a dangerous situation, a call can save life. For precaution, software can be installed to track the websites the teenager visits to ensure that it is used for required purposes. Appreciation
We are grateful to the Management of Graceland College, Enugu (in blue) and Hopeful Schools, Lagos (in pink) for the contributions made by their students and staff. And to all other respondents. The debate continues on: www.thisdaylive.com  and www.teensconnectmag.com . What do you think, should teenagers own smart phones? Sign in and join the debate.