By Bennett  Oghifo Honda has pulled the wraps off an all-new, fifth-generation CR-V for journalists to see, during the week. The completely redesigned and reengineered 2018 CR-V, going on sale this March, boasts of bold new styling, a more premium interior, a host of new features and technologies aimed at maintaining CR-V’s status as the outright benchmark in the highly popular compact SUV segment. Bold and Sophisticated New Design… The new CR-V styling heads in a fresh new direction with an aggressive attitude, thanks to crisp and sharp front-end design elements, aggressive stylized headlights surrounded by a wing-shaped LED DRL array on all trims, and wide, muscular fenders. The long hood, longer wheelbase and short rear overhang gives the new CR-V a more sophisticated and athletic presence. The CR-V’s new windswept front end appearance includes signature Honda LED headlights (EX trim), a Honda-first Active Shutter Grille that lowers aerodynamic drag, uprated aluminium alloy wheels (18 inches in EX trim) and narrower A-pillars for improved visibility. Powertrain and Chassis Technology… The All New 2018 CR-V is powered by a 2.4-litre DOHC, direct-injected i-VTEC™ engine, and it’s mated to a smooth shifting and sporty continuously variable transmission (CVT) with Honda G-Shift control logic. The all-new body and chassis design in the 2018 CR-V provides more agile and confident handling, greater refinement, additional ground clearance and superior overall versatility. Its front MacPherson strut and rear multi-link suspension utilize specially tuned low-friction dampers, including tubular front and solid rear stabilizer bars that promote quick turn-in and flatter cornering. Dual-pinion, variable ratio Electric Power Steering (EPS) also contributes to the CR-V’s direct and satisfying steering feel. More Premium, Spacious and Technologically Advanced Interior… The 2018 CR-V also raises the bar for interior refinement, utility and premium features in the compact SUV class. The more spacious cabin, with top-in-class interior space and the best rear seat legroom in its class, features upgraded materials throughout, including a new soft-touch instrument panel and more intricately stitched seats. A high definition (HD) colour driver information interface (DII) centre meter display adds to the handsome new design aesthetic. The CR-V offers the latest in-vehicle connectivity and audio performance with a new generation of advanced technologies. The CR-V’s 7-inch touchscreen Display Audio system is compatible with the Apple CarPlay and Android Auto™ platforms, giving customers seamless integration of key smartphone features and functions, including smartphone-powered GPS navigation and voice-controlled search capabilities. Some of the key new comfort and convenience features available on the 2018 Honda CR-V include power programmable tailgate, versatile centre console, dual-zone climate controls, Electric Parking Brake (EPB), Automatic Brake Hold (ABH), two fast charge rear USB ports, and front passenger seat with 4-way power adjustment and driver’s seat with 8-way power adjustment.  Advanced Safety and Driver-Assistive Technology… Utilizing Honda’s next-generation Advanced Compatibility Engineering™ (ACE™) body structure, the 2018 CR-V rated the highest available collision safety ratings by various third party evaluators. The 2018 CR-V further expands the safety features to driver-assist. The newly added Driver Attention Monitor, measures driver attention by four levels. When the driver’s attention level becomes low, the system suggest the driver to take a break, by delivering both audible and tactile alert. The driver attention monitor functions to help keep sleepy drivers awake at all time. The idea behind the concept of developing the 5th-generation CR-V, after 23 years from the introduction of first-generation, was to set a benchmark as the next-generation SUVs. “As such, the All New Comfortable Runabout Vehicle (CR-V) was overhauled, and now offers unique characteristics/features to the level that inspires and delight our customers. With the ALL New CR-V you get everything more!”