By Oghenevwede Ohwovoriole in Abuja The Social Democratic Party (SDP) has described the federal government-led All Progressives Congress (APC) as politically immature and lacks the capacity to govern Nigeria. The party stated this after its meeting at its national secretariat in Abuja over the weekend. The party also promised to lead the way on the conversation towards the yearnings of Nigerians on the structure and welfare of Nigerians. According to the party in a statement by its media unit, “Arising from its maiden National Communications Strategy briefing, the Social Democratic Party (SDP) has resolved to set the agenda for the next round of elections and stir the conversation towards the yearnings of Nigerians for a better governed country. “It identified these to be primarily on a restructured, balanced, equitable and truly functional Nigerian federation; a humane, free, self-reliant and democratic society; an inclusive, productive, pro-growth and sustainable economy; a just, fair, egalitarian and peaceful nation; a land of opportunities for all Nigerians; and a national culture of raising effective leaders through mentoring of young people” The statement added that the party had resolved to be issue based in all its media engagements and in its bid to firmly reposition the party, which is the only ideology driven political party in Nigeria. The SDP further stated: “The meeting also unanimously resolved to be issue based in all its media and communications engagements, in its bid to firmly re-position the SDP, which is the only ideology driven political party in Nigeria. “On the nation-wide roll-out, after the Non-Elective Convention in April 2018, it was also unanimously agreed that the youth, women and emerging leaders would drive the process, as the internal political space with the party has been deliberately designed to accommodate these very important demography.” The party also agreed on the need to promote the party’s manifesto in a way that it would be clear and easy to understand with emphasis on a new governance model. The party continued, “The need to promote the party’s manifesto in a clear and easy to comprehend format was agreed, with strategic emphasis placed on the party’s stands on a new governance model for Nigeria that will make welfare, citizen’s rights and rule of law the epicenter of its programs. “However, it also observed that the gross lack of capacity in managing the economy and the political immaturity in governance by the APC-led federal government has brought untold hardship, increased sectarian violence and polarised the nation into ethnic and religious camps, in fact the last three years has been tales of disillusionment, despair and disenchantment.” The party through the statement also said that all hope is not yet lost and that it will guide the country back on the part of prosperity, progress and unity and that the party is ready to govern at all levels. While also reiterating that all hope is not lost, SDP said that it had come to stop the hemorrhaging and guide the nation back unto the path of prosperity, progress and unity, stating the SDP is ready to govern Nigeria at all levels, as the SDP is directed, driven and defined by its core values. “We are the party Nigerians have been waiting and we are determined to deliver on our promises working together as a people to give Nigerians a new lease of life,” the statement.