Says group trying to frustrate Trump’s assistance to Nigeria IG absolves police of blame
Paul Obi in Abuja
The Defence Headquarters (DHQ) on Tuesday debunked the claims by Amnesty International (AI) that the military was duly informed of a possible Boko Haram abduction of school girls but failed to avert the kidnapping.
The Director of Defence Information, Brig Gen John Agim, while speaking on the matter, explained that the antics of AI was to cause disaffection among Nigerians against the military and derail foreign aids to the armed forces. He said: “The Defence Headquarters wishes to respond to AI report in which the group alleged that the Nigerian military and security forces were informed that a convoy of Boko Haram fighters were heading towards Dapchi in Yobe State to abduct some school girls, and failed to act accordingly. “Apart from questioning the motive of AI, it is pertinent to state that most of their narratives are outright falsehood and a calculated attempt to whip up sentiments and mislead unsuspecting Nigerians, demoralise friendly nations and people collaborating with security forces to end the forces of evil in the North-east.
“For the avoidance of doubts, no security force was informed of Dapchi school girls abduction as alleged by AI.”
Agim added that “the Nigerian public and the International community should know that the armed forces of Nigeria is a professional military and has attained the highest form of professionalism in line with international best practices. “And so, could not have ignore warning of Boko Haram attack only to work tirelessly to get the girls back.
“It is not proper for an organisation like AI who do not meant well for Nigeria going by their previous reputation of denigrating the security forces anytime they make gains against the forces of evil to incite the Nigerian public and international community against the military.
“Some of our services chiefs, senior commanders prosecuting the war against insurgency and even some heads of security and paramilitary services are from the North-east. “They have put their lives on the line severally to end the madness in the North-east. It is therefore very unfair for AI that does not care if the country survives as a united indivisible entity to come up every time to put doubts in the minds of the people about the military that has remained dedicated to keeping the country one.
“AI always brings out damming reports about the Nigerian military at strategic points. They did that accurately in the previous administration and the United States invoked the leahy law against Nigeria at the peak of the Boko Haram insurgency. “Within this year, AI issued reports against the military in January 2018, February 2018 and now March 2018 The question is; what is the motive of the AI?
“The answer is simple; President Trump of the United States of America has agreed to collaborate with the current government of Nigeria to end insurgency in the North-east and AI wants to do everything within its powers to make sure that the US-Nigeria Anti-terrorism cooperation does not succeed in accordance with their paymasters design.”
Agim observed that “the question AI has not answered satisfactorily is; which of the security forces and what unit was informed that a convoy of Boko Haram fighters were heading towards Dapchi where they abducted Dapchi school girls? Meanwhile, the Inspector General of Police (IG), Ibrahim Idris, yesterday has the Nigeria Police Force of any wrong doing in the abduction of Government Girls Science and Technical College in.
Idris also reiterated the commitment of the police mobile force in deploying its personnel to all the schools in the North-east as part of measures to forestall future occurrence. The police chief stated this in Abuja on yesterday at the Force Headquarters during a meeting with Squadron, Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU), and Special Protection Unit (SPU), Commanders.
He said: “You are all aware of the abduction of Dapchi schoolgirls by this horrible Boko Haram in Yobe States. Though not the fault of the police, the incidence was a national embarrassment. “It is not the fault of the police because from what we had from the Commissioner of Police in the state, he said he was not informed or alerted before that attack took place but I think it is incumbent on us to take action.
“Consequently, in compliance with the presidential order, I have given a directive that all schools in Yobe, Adamawa and Borno state must have PMF personnel deployed to the schools. The PMF are to provide security in those schools.” Speaking on the withdrawal of police personnel, the IG said the withdrawal would be nationwide.
Also, the Yobe State Commissioner of Police, Sunmonu Abdulmaliki, yesterday denied reports that it was complacent in the kidnapping of the Dapchi schoolgirls.
According to him, “the attention of the Yobe State Police Command has been drawn to reports on the issue of the Dapchi attack that the police was informed hours before the attack on Dapchi town on 19/02/2018. “The assertion is nothing but a mere speculation on its time frame as it is completely not correct.
“Furthermore, the insinuation that the police ran away is not true as the only near fatal casualty was a policeman wounded and now recuperating in the hospital.”
Abdulmaliki said: “The Yobe State Police Command will continue to cooperate with other security agencies in ensuring safety and protection of lives and property of people of Yobe State.”