The Edo State Government has partnered with the Christ Against Drug Abuse Ministry (CADAM) of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) to combat drug abuse and bring succor to victims of drug addiction. In a statement, Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki said the partnership was to strengthen the state’s response to issues of drug abuse and provide an avenue for drug addicts to get rehabilitated. He said the efforts are necessary because of the increasing cases of drug-related offenses and activities of youths who abuse drugs such as tramadol, codeine and Rohypnol, cannabis, among others. According to him, “This partnership will help us rein in our youths. It will also open up the avenue for rehabilitation of youths who are addicted to drugs. We have come to realise that for us to have a productive population, our young ones must be in the right frame of mind to work. This would not happen if they are slaves to harmful drugs. So, we partnering with CADAM to ensure that those who are already neck deep in drug abuse will get the required professional help they need.” Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Edo State, Prof. Yinka Omorogbe, who’s a member of CADAM team, said the state would not tolerate drug abuse. She added, “We are pursuing aggressive reforms in the state to ensure that we do not have a crisis on our hands. We need all the partnerships we can get. CADAM is one of the partners we are working with to ensure that victims of drug abuse are rehabilitated and given required attention.” However, she reiterated the state government’s warning that young people should stay off drugs and tap from the numerous opportunities being created, with the influx of investors into the state. CADAM leads advocacy, counseling and residential rehabilitation initiatives to address matters of drug abuse, dependency and addiction. A faith-based non-governmental organisation, the organisation provide free services through a 12-month residential rehabilitation for drug addicts among other roles. 