*Fulani lament wanton destruction Seriki Adinoyi in Jos As part of measures to arrest the vicious cycle of violent attacks in Plateau State, Governor Simon Lalong has vowed to immediately review the state security architecture, while working closely with security agencies to arrest and prosecute the perpetrators of these heinous crimes. The governor disclosed this in a state-wide broadcast yesterday, noting that, “Although this emerging conflict trend has affected our collective efforts to further consolidate the gains of our post conflict peace-building process, however our commitment to ensure the security of lives and property remains unshakable.” He said: “Many of you must have heard of the recent attacks in Miango District of Bassa and Bokkos Local Government Areas respectively within the past one week. These series of systematic attacks orchestrated by armed men have led to the destruction of innocent lives and properties in these affected communities. “As a responsible government that shares in the plight of its citizens, we condemn in the strongest possible terms the resurgence of violent attacks in some of our communities in Bokkos and Bassa Local Government Areas.
“Let me assure our citizens that some arrests have already been made and the suspects will be arraigned before the relevant authorities in no distant future.” While calling on citizens to remain calm and shun rumours and inflammatory utterances, the governor promised to give necessary support to the people that sustained varying degrees of injuries to enable them overcome their loss and hurts. Meanwhile, the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) has disclosed that aside from killing five Fulani in the Wednesday violence, “the Irigwe militias burned down over 150 Fulani houses, set properties worth millions of naira ablaze, fired 46 cows to death and carted away with about 400 cows.”
In a statement, the Chairman of MACBAN, Mallam Muhammad Nuru Abdullah, noted that, “In the wake of the unfortunate and painful incidence, over 2,764 persons, mostly women and children were displaced, while others that fled the community are now taking refuge with relatives in neighbouring villages. “We are therefore, calling the attention of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to come to the aid of the displaced Fulani.” While recalling the series of attacks on the Fulani communities in the recent past, which have left wanton destructions in their aftermath, MACBAN however appreciated the efforts of all the security agencies, especially the Special Task Force (STF) and Nigeria Police for making laudable efforts to salvage the situations.
MACBAN also called on government to take major step towards halting further recurrence of “this tit-for-tat madness.”