By Bennett Oghifo A group, Women in Successful Careers (WISCAR) has announced the appointment of Mrs. Fabia Ogunmekan as its pioneer Executive Secretary.
In her role as Executive Secretary Mrs. Ogunmekan assumes responsibility for   overseeing the day to day administration of WISCAR’s strategy implementation and programmes management, working closely with the WISCAR Advisory Board and staff to continue to meet the objectives of the organisation.
WISCAR is a non-profit organisation focused on empowering and developing professional women to contribute to economic development and nation building in Nigeria and Africa.  ‘WIN-with-WISCAR’, WISCAR’s flagship programme is a structured mentoring program that provides strategic career advice, inspiration, guidance and support to young career women to help unleash their potential, navigate career pathways, achieve their objectives, foster ambitions and nurture dreams.
Speaking on the appointment, Mrs. Amina Oyagbola, Founder and Chairperson of WISCAR remarked “Fabia Ogunmekan’s appointment as our first Executive Secretary is a defining moment in this new Chapter of the WISCAR story.  We celebrated our 10th anniversary in February 2018 and in that period of WISCAR’s existence we have groomed and inspired an impressive cohort of WISCAR Alumni and recognized inspiring WISCAR Fellows, Women all doing great things and making positive contributions just as we envisioned when we commenced”.
Continuing, she added that, “I have no doubt that she is the right person to take the helm of executive management as WISCAR forges ahead to further advocate for the development and empowerment of women through appropriate and adequate workplace gender friendly policies that will enhance the success of women in their chosen careers”.
Fabia Ogunmekan is a Lawyer and Corporate Executive with 18 years’ experience working in the fields of law and development across Corporate Organizations and Non-profits in the healthcare, gender and entrepreneurship sectors. She holds a Master of Science (MSc) in Non Profit Management from the Cass Business School, City University London (2016), BL (2001) from the Nigerian Law School and Bachelor of Laws degree (LLB) from the University College London (1998). She has attended a number of capacity building courses in the areas of Law, Leadership and Management and is a 2008 Alumnus of the Lagos Business School’s Senior Management Programme.
Prior to joining WISCAR, she served as Alumni Engagement Manager at the Tony Elumelu Foundation where she was responsible for developing and implementing engagement programs and partnership opportunities for the Alumni network. She has previously worked with Hygeia Nigeria Limited where she spent 8 successful years in different management and executive roles, culminating in her role as Head of Group Legal and Regulatory Compliance.  Her development experience also includes her role as Corporate Secretary Pronatura International (Nigeria) and as an Associate at The Law Union (Barristers and Solicitors). She volunteers as a mentor and coach on various community youth programs, she is married and has three children.