Super International Travels Limited, a travel agency with branches in Lagos and Abuja, has launched its website, www.wesabitravel.com, at a programme which held at the Sheraton Hotel, Lagos, amid fanfare. Managing Director of the company, Mrs. Mobisola Shobayo used the occasion, which was attended by leaders of blue-chip companies from major sectors of the economy, decision makers from the travel industry and senior government functionaries, to thank customers, airlines and the travelling public for their unflinching support over the years.
In her welcome address, Shobayo said the travel agency had been in existence for 36 years adding that the company deemed it fit to launch its own travel website because e-travel and e-commerce had already overtaken paper and manual ticketing globally. According to her, the founders of Super Travels had a big vision for the company, adding that she and her team, which conceived the vision for wesabitravel over three years ago, would not leave any stone unturned in taking it to an enviable height as a company. “E-commerce has come to stay in the world, at first, we thought it was a joke but that is what is in vogue now and Super Travels has to key into it. We have been in existence for the past 35 years with so much experience, the website is a one-stop shop, with it, you will be able to make choices, the system will tell you the best and cheapest fare, you can also book hotels of your choice. “We have bank guarantee, you don’t need to call anybody to complete you travel plans, all you need do is to just log in and make your choice. When it comes to travels, this is our passion”, she said.
Also speaking, Chairman of Super Int’l Travels, Mr. Adejare Shobayo, said the product is mobile friendly, adding that a customer has full control of his booking. “It is about best practices in the travel world and it is to the benefit of the whole aviation industry. You can book, make changes, confirm your bookings and pay online, it is mobile friendly and within two minutes of your login, you are done with your booking”, he said.
Some of the clients and partners in their goodwill messages, praised the management of the company for consistency, loyalty and prudence. Mr. Ademola Sanya, spoke on behalf of British Airways (BA) while Mrs. Odion spoke on behalf of GTA.
They both pledged their loyalties to Super Travels, adding that the new initiative is a better step towards the right direction in travel. “In all my years in BA, I have particularly taken tone of Mrs. Shobayo’s interpersonal relationship, it’s been wonderful, BA appreciates you, we will continue to deal with you”, Sanya said.