Ogun State Governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun and his Bayelsa State counterpart, Seriake Dickson, have  congratulated former President Olusegun Obasanjo as he celebrates his 81st birthday today, describing him as a quintessential leader. In a statement signed by the state Commissioner for Information and Strategy,  Mr. Adedayo Adeneye, Amosun said the retired general and statesman, as military head of state and civilian president, demonstrated an exceptional passion for the socio economic development of the country and wellbeing of Nigerians. “His service to the country can be summarised as that of total sacrifice and exceeding zeal to ensure that Nigeria is great. Even incarceration did not douse his vision”, he stated. Amosun further described Obasanjo as a phenomenon, who was a gallant soldier, astute engineer and consistent statesman, adding that his sterling leadership qualities and administrative acumen, have been of great benefit to Nigeria, the international community and mankind in general. “This international figure, distinguished Nigerian and illustrious son of Ogun State, is a shining star, whose enviable reputation has not been diminished by diverse challenges,” he said. The governor prayed that God grants the former Nigerian leader good health, wisdom and knowledge, to re-energise him towards an accomplished global leadership. On his part, Dickson in a statement signed by  his Chief Press Secretary, Francis Ottah Agbo, prayed God to grant the elder statesman long life as well as good health so that “we can continue to tap from his fountain of knowledge and experience.” While thanking the former president for sparing time out of his tight schedule to visit Bayelsa recently to commission legacy projects, Dickson said clocking 81 years calls for celebration. He said: “On behalf of the government and the grateful people of Bayelsa State, I warmly felicitate with you on your 81st birthday Anniversary. Baba, we cannot thank you enough for all you have done for us as a people including your three-day Visit to Bayelsa State on my sixth anniversary where you commissioned legacy projects such as the world- class diagnostic centre, aquaculture village, the specialist hospital and the Olusegun Obasanjo Drive. As you celebrate your new age, I join your family, friends and associates to wish you many happy returns! May God grant you many more years in good health.”