Ugo Aliogo Sujimoto Construction has organised a private briefing and viewing of its new project for selected agents and journalists. The project is known as the Giuliano and it is located in Banana Island, Ikoyi Lagos. Speaking at the event yesterday in Lagos, the Chief Executive Officer, Sujimoto Construction, Mr. Sijibomi Ogundele, said before introducing the project to the public they wanted to introduce the project to their agents and key players in the industry, adding that they wanted their agents to understand the in-depth strategy behind the project and “the reason why they went for the project and the luxury aspect of it especially the story behind the project.” He stated that the current project they are handling would finish on the October 30, noting that the project is only residential units and most the investors are those that have bought to lease out for investment purposes. Ogundele explained that the property is an affordable luxury, stressing that it is cheaper than what has put out in public domain, “we have compared to what we have in the market and comparing with what is in the market especially in terms of features and facilities, we believe that it is cheaper than our competitors.” He further stated that they have developed a strategy that would bring about the ease of payment, which he noted involved making a minimum deposit and the remaining the payment is spread for a period of 10 month. According to him, “The Giuliano as more than just a project; it is a game changer that will redefine the way people live. It is a convergence of 16th century architectural ingenuity, inspired by the great works of the great Medici family, with the functionality of 21st century lifestyle. It brings exclusivity, location and quality together in one space. “The almost sold-out project that has been kept a secret was finally revealed in a private viewing to these passionate agents whose enthusiasm and willingness to participate in the Sujimoto Project is because they know that we are one of the few real estate company that creates quality products with features that allows investors get high returns on their investments. “In designing the Giuliano, we understood that to be needed, we needed to be loaded. We went around Ikoyi and banana island, we toured the best terraces and apartments, looking for standards to set and records to beat. “Aside from the exceptional quality of features and facilities, no drop of paint will be on the Giuliano. The whole exterior will be clad in a special Spanish stone – a new generation high quality façade to give it a luxury feel, the same façade that was used for Baba Ijebu’s house, which is regarded as the most expensive house in Nigeria.”