Football fans and stakeholders coming to Lafia for the opening game of the Nigeria Women Professional Football League (NWFL) have been assured of a convivial atmosphere to  enjoy the game between hosts, Nasarawa Amazons and Robo FC of Lagos. The Nasarawa State government, which said it is leaving no stone unturned in its bid to stage a magnificent 2017/18 season opener on April 7, has also assured the teams of an international standard Lafia Township Stadium on match day. Expected at the game are those that matter in Nigerian sports, including women football stakeholders, board members of the league body, Nasarawa State First Lady and other state functionaries. Chairman of Nasarawa Amazons, Nuhu Audu said everything is being put in place to ensure the ceremony goes well as schedule without any hitches. “We are already concluding registration of the team as well as documentation for the new league season. “That’s crucial as every other things we are doing for the opening ceremony is built around the team’s success. “I can tell you that preparations for the season’s opening ceremony will kick-start fully by next week. “The Executive Governor, Umaru Tanko Al-Makura and deputy, Silas Ali Agera and other functionaries are quite enthusiastic about the programme. “They have assured that no stone will be left unturned to ensure it becomes a huge success. “Nasarawa Amazons are the reigning league champions and everyone is on same page to ensure the team start the season brilliantly and take up to end the season successfully,” said Audu. Meanwhile, the NWFL has revealed that the 16 teams participating in the 2017/18 Nigeria Women Premier League (NWPL) have complied with the league body’s directive to settle their team’s registration fee on March 19, 2018. The NWFL had set March 19 as deadline for the payment of registration fee for clubs interested in taking part in the top-flight, while March 30 is fixed for the collection of licenses. The NWFL Chief Operating Officer (COO), Ayo Abdulrahman revealed that the season would be abridged, with teams divided in two groups of eight teams each. Group A includes Edo Queens, Confluence Queens, Delta Queens, Bayelsa Queens, Rivers Angels and two newcomers, Sure Babes and FC Taraba Queens, while Group B is made up of champions, Nasarawa Amazons, Adamawa Queens, FC Robo Queens, Sunshine Queens, Pelican Stars, Osun Babes, Abia Angels and newcomers, Jokodolu Babes. He added that the body would hold a one-day seminar today in Abuja for club chairmen, team managers, coaches, players and management with the first theme as ‘Club Management Strategy.’