Wole Ayodele in Jalingo The Chairman of Heirs Holdings, Dr Tony Elumelu, will today deliver the maiden convocation lecture of Taraba State University, Jalingo. Elumelu who is a leading light in the corporate world, would lecture the students and the entire university community on ‘Job seekers and job providers: Role of Universities in Entrepreneurship Development and Youth Development in Nigeria.’ Addressing journalists at the convocation press briefing yesterday, the Vice Chancellor, Prof Vincent Ado Tenebe, said 5,900 graduands of the university would graduated at the convocation ceremony scheduled to hold on Saturday, March 23, 2018. He said the 5,900 graduands were drawn from the five graduate sets of the University which was established in 2008 by the administration of late former governor of the state, Danbaba Suntai. Giving a breakdown of the categories of awards of the graduands, he stated that 29 graduated with first class, 1006 graduated with second class upper division, 2083 with second class lower division while 1850 graduated with third class and 32 graduated with passes. He revealed that at inception, the university had three faculties but can now boast of eight faculties and a student population of over 15,000 as well as over 200 academic staff. “The university started with three faculties and we now have eight faculties with a student population of over 15,000. We have also within the past ten years established post graduate programmes and we currently have over 100 staff of the University building their capacities in other universities in Nigeria and outside the country. “Within the past twelve months, the university has grown in leaps and bounds to become the best state university in the North-east. From three professors a year ago to 52 professors either on permanent appointment, visiting or on sabbatical leave and we have commenced masters programme we are poised to commence Ph.D programmes.” “We are the best state owned university in the North-east and we are properly positioned to tackle the challenges of the present time as reflected in the courses we are offering in the university,” he said.