Christopher Isiguzo in Enugu The acting Chairman of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu, yesterday declared that the anti-graft agency has remained committed to learning and being guided in the best ways to carry out its functions aimed at eradicating corruption in the country. He said the commission was ready to partner the judiciary and other stakeholders in ensuring that nobody was spared in the fight against graft.
Magu stated these when he paid a courtesy visit to the Chief Judge of Enugu State, Justice Ngozi P, Emehelu, at the state high court Enugu. “We are here to thank you for all your support and also solicit for more knowing that we are not above board and will constantly need directions and guidance in the work we do,” he said.
Magu stressed that the judiciary is responsible for the commission’s achievements so far, and that for anything to be done successfully in the future, the support of the judiciary is still highly needed. “We know we are not above board neither do we claim monopoly of knowledge, but we seek not just your support but that of Nigerians to do the needful so that the country would move on positively,” he noted.
Justice Emehelu expressed delight at having the EFCC boss whom she described as a formidable and hardworking man at the high court, saying the judiciary was poised to support EFCC in its commendable efforts at eradicating corruption from the country. According to her, “It is not in doubt that EFCC is in the forefront in the fight against economic crimes and corruption, and this responsibility is really quite enormous, yet the commission has recorded successes,” Emehelu stated. On the relationship between the commission and the judiciary, she further said: “The work we do and yours are very similar because they are service and public-oriented jobs that call for closer synergy between not just the EFCC and the judiciary but also among other law enforcement agencies. We are ready and willing to support you but on the basis of mutual respect.” Citing the judiciary as the balance between the legislature and executive, Justice Emehelu said the need for speedy trial of criminal cases cannot be over-emphasised, and that the judiciary was committed to effective justice delivery and speedy dispensation of cases. Speaking later to the staff of the Enugu zonal office, the acting chairman of the commission urged them to see their work at the EFCC as a call from God to serve humanity, saying it was not an accident that out of millions of Nigerians, they were destined to be staff of EFCC. He advised the staff to always seek to learn from their superiors because nobody is a repository of knowledge and that they should never involve themselves in any underhanded dealings which will put the commission in bad light.