• Backs him for second term By Gboyega Akinsanmi Business mogul and the Chairman of Forte Oil Plc, Mr. Femi Otedola, has lauded the Lagos State governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, for his stewardship in the state despite the numerous challenges in the state, the rest of the country, and the recent recession, saying his “great good works” have kept Lagos as the benchmark for other states to aspire to. Otedola also endorsed Ambode for a second term and called on Lagosians to vote massively for him in 2019. In a statement issued yesterday by the businessman, he said he has watched and followed Ambode with keen interest since he assumed office, and has no doubt that the governor is building on the foundations laid by his predecessors. According to the entrepreneur and son of a former governor of the state, “As a Lagosian and omo Ibile  (child of originalregions that make up Lagos), I wish to expressly commend and appreciate the great good works our amiable Governor Ambode is doing in our dear Lagos – Nigeria’s No. 1 state. “I have watched and followed keenly, in the almost last three years of the brilliant transformation projects across the state. No doubt, Ambode is building on the foundations laid by his good predecessors. “He is building roads and bridges, schools and hospitals, water treatment plants, sewage and storm water drainages, solid waste management plants, and mass transportation infrastructure.” Otedola further recalled that Ambode has approved power projects for Lagos, which when fully executed, will make the state almost energy independent. “You are all aware of the newly acquired mass transit buses that are going to be natural gas powered, in order for us in Lagos to be the first to comply with the global climate agenda of de-carbonisation. “A clean and smart Lagos will catapult us to the modern global village and make us the number four economy in Africa,” he added. Otedola noted that Ambode was also spearheading the modernisation of the Lagos State bureaucracy in order to get all the processes re-engineered for higher and best performances. “A good government is a reflection of an efficient and responsive bureaucracy. It is the catalytic driver for private sector growth. A bad and weak bureaucracy will produce nothing for the people. “We are lucky to have an able governor like Ambode at the helm of our affairs. He is a knowledge-driven leader, hard working, with a passion for our great state. “My endorsement and recommendations for him to have a second term is performance-based and not just the usual conventional charade of second term endorsement in Nigeria. “I am sure that all my respected compatriots, friends and followers will agree with me that Governor Ambode should please continue with his good job till 2023. “Ambode, please CARRY GO the 2019 election and continue with your passionate work for Lagos State transformation,” he said. He also thanked the governor for being a “true servant leader”, adding: “With your eyes on the ball, surely Lagos State will become the number three economy in Africa.”