Femi Ogbonnikan in Abeokuta Nemesis has caught up with the man who hacked two primary school pupils to death in Ogun last Monday following his arrest by the police. The two slain pupils of St John Anglican Primary School, Agodo, in Ogun Waterside Local Government Area of Ogun State were among scores of their other colleagues playing on a football pitch on Monday before the assailant struck and snuffed lives out of them. While confirming the arrest of the suspect, Lekan Adebisi, who was alleged to be mentally insane, Mr Abimbola Oyeyemi, Ogun State Police Command Public Relations Officer, in a statement yesterday, disclosed that the assailant was arrested in the early hours of yesterday by the combine efforts of both the policemen attached to Ogbere area command led by Makinde Kayode and local hunters in the affected community. According to Oyeyemi, an Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), “the suspect who was identified has Lekan Adebisi broke into the compound of St. John Anglican School Agodo with a cutlass and hacked two pupils of the school to death after which he took to his heels. “The state Commissioner of Police (CP), Ahmed Iliyasu, who was visibly shaken by the dastardly action, swiftly gave a matching order to the Area commander, in-charge of Ogbere Command and DPO Abigi Division to fish out the murderer within a shortest possible time. “And in compliance with the CP’s directive, the Area Commander mobilized his officers and men, and local hunters for the manhunt of the suspect. Their efforts later paid off in the early hours of today when the suspect was sighted in a bush around the community. While they wanted to effect his arrest, the suspect who was brandishing a sharp cutlass attacked the armed police team, consequent upon which he was shot and injured on the leg. He has been taken to hospital for medical treatment”, said the police spokesman. He, however, added that the police boss has directed the immediate transfer of the matter to detectives attached to the Homicide Section of State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID), Eleweran, Abeokuta for a discreet probe.