Sunday Okobi The award winning author of United Nation partnership with God; Darling, It’s Not Working; Understanding the Force of Liberty; Covenant of Holiness and seven other titles, Mrs. Kelicha Ochonogor, has called on the federal government to give the creativity industry all the necessary support to grow to its full potential. The prolific writer, who has written 11 books in two years, particularly seeks encouragement for book writers in Nigeria by way of recommending their works to schools among other institutions for use. While speaking with journalists after being honoured by the Christian Writers Association of Nigeria (CWAN) for her advancement of mankind at an event tagged: ‘Building a fan base for your books’, in Lagos, the English Language graduate of Delta State University, Abraka and holder of Master’s in same discipline from Covenant University, Ota, Ogun State, noted that creative art direly needed the support of government at all levels to impact the society and lives more positively. Ochonogor, who began full-time writing in 2016, also urged government, public-spirited individuals and organisations to join the crusade in reviving the reading culture in Nigeria, which according to her, is declining.
She said some persons had already begun the move on social media through e-books and book clubs among others to reignite the dying reading culture among Nigerians. “I learnt of a certain country where when you publish a book, the government will buy over 1,000 copies and distribute to the libraries for the people to have access to it. “The novel I just finished is about cheating which basically starts from home. Most parents encourage their children to cheat, pay someone to write examinations for them. When they grow up, they take same to the university and before you know, it has become part of them.” She said: “Whether you like it or not, somebody that has such a mindset will not want to exploit his or her talent.
“I expect government to make students read such novel and circulate the book, and when they see the effect, they will bring out the moral lesson from it.” She continued: “Reading culture is coming up, and we need to encourage reading. The more a child reads, the more he understands and emulates the characters in it, especially positive books.
“Government needs to do a lot to encourage reading culture.” In his remark at the award presentation, the National President of CWAN, Pastor Peter Morakinyo, who lauded Ochonogor for standing out and as a gifted communicator, said she is a prolific writer with an amazing energy.
He explained that within two years of her foray into writing, she had authored 11 books and still counting, with a “passionate to influence humanity by the word of God. She offers lasting solutions on bible principles through her books, to the youth, women and men respectively. “Within a space of two years, she had published 11 books which include ‘Understanding the Force of Liberty; Prayer Enhancers; Following the Steps of Giants; Understanding Glory; Understanding Glory; Power of Choice; Sacrifices of the Virtuous Women; Power of Choice; A Shadow in the Shade and A dangling sword (Novel).” Morakinyo however urged upcoming writers to put in more commitment so that their materials can be a blessing to people, “We appreciate and value what they are doing by releasing their intellectual potentials, which will be a blessing to many people and that is why we decide to celebrate them.”