Okon Bassey in Uyo
The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) will today commence sitting in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State capital, to investigate at least 76 complaints on hate speech and electoral violence lodged in the South-south geo-political zone. The acting Executive Secretary of the Commission, Mr. Tony Ojukwu, disclosed this at the flag-off of sensitisation meeting held yesterday in the Federal High court, Uyo. Calling on the complainants and alleged violators to appear before the commission, he stressed that the complaints had already been investigated and would be handled in the public hearing organised by the commission as scheduled. “This public hearing is for the entire South-south, we have complaints from most of the states in the zone. In this session, we have 76 complaints which had been investigated before and they are going to come up during this session.
“This is an opportunity to give fair hearing to parties both the complainants and alleged violators. We chose the approach of public hearing because of the large complaints received,” Ojukwu said. According to the executive secretary, the purpose of the sensitisation was to create awareness on the dangers of hate speech and attendant election violence that follows such situations.
He urged politicians to refrain from making statements that could cause violence and divide the country as we are approaching 2019 general election. Ojukwu declared that the whole idea of the sensitisation is to deepen democracy, advising that campaigns towards 2019 elections must be issue based. “The purpose of the present campaign by the NHRC is to discourage use of hate speech and election violence during campaigns and other elections activities. “For those who choose to use the tools of hate speeches and election violence, they will be investigated and prosecuted and made to account for their actions.” Also speaking at the sensitisation summit, the  Speaker,  Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, Mr. Onofiok Luke, condemned  the use of hate speech in the country. He, however, tasked the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the security agencies in the country to remain unbiased in the discharge of their duties. “Most countries that are in conflict today started with hate speeches and electoral violence. As we approach 2019 elections, we must continue in campaigning against the use of hate speeches. Luke lauded the NHRC for the campaign and urged them to take the campaign to churches, mosque and traditional institutions.
The Akwa Ibom State Commissioner of Police, Adeyemi Ogunjemilusi, at the session called for legislation as the only measure to check the menace of hate speech and electoral violence. Ogunjemilusi, who was represented by DCP Administration, Yekini Ajogun, warned political actors to operate within the ambit of the law as they go about their campaigns. He urged the commission to remain unbiased to make the outcome of the exercise acceptable by all concerned.