Ademola Babalola in Ibadan
With the next general election gathering momentum, a cross section of Yoruba leaders under the umbrella of Afenifere, has restated their stand on the restructuring of Nigeria before 2019. According to them, restructuring and true federalism of the country would preserve the nation’s unity and engender rapid development of components parts that make up Nigeria.
Led by its National Chairman, Chief Reuben Fasoranti, the group maintained that the only solution to the country’s present challenges is restructuring. They wondered why the present administration is window-dressing and paying lips service to the demand for restructuring and true federalism where all the federating units would enjoy autonomy , and not forced patriotism as it is presently the case with Nigeria. Others who spoke at the Afenifere Oyo State Summit held at the Jogor Event Centre , Ibadan yesterday included Senator Mojisoluwa Akinfenwa, Chief Mrs Bukola Oni (daughter of the late Pa Emmanuel Alayande), Dr. Adebisi Busari, Chairman, Oyo State chapter of Afenifere, Dr. Gbola Adetunji, former Governor of Oyo State, Dr. Omololu Olunloyo, and state Secretary of Afenifere, Bashorun Sehinde Arowogbofa. The list also included Oyo State Governor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, represented by his Chief of Staff, Dr. Gbade Ojo, Archbishop Ayo Ladigbolu, Dr. Olutoyosi Omotoso, former Speaker, Oyo State House of Assembly, Hon. Kehinde Ayoola, Nureni Adeniran , Mr. Akin Oke, Deji Osibogun, and governorship aspirant, Seyi Makinde among others.
In his address, the state Chairman of Afenifere, Dr. Gbola Adetunji, pleaded for cohesion and unity of purpose among Yoruba people , saying that the political upheavals over the years had produced fragmented political leadership in yorubaland. He said: “We can no longer speak with a common voice to fight for or defend the interests of our people. Afeniferes had dispersed into various political fronts and had made it impossible to develop a common Yoruba agenda.”
Adetunji however told the gathering that it is now imperative that Afenifere device new strategies in order to save the Yoruba nation from total relegation to irrelevance in a federal Nigeria, and remove all encumbrances of self development and progress.
The Oyo State governor, Senator Ajimobi who was represented by his Chief of Staff , Dr. Ojo sought for the continued existence of Nigeria , and also lent his voice on the clamour for restructuring and return to true federalism. Governor Ajimobi who commended the organisers of the summit, charged Yoruba leaders to continue to struggle for relevance and ensure the Yoruba nation remain a force in the Nigerian project.
“Yoruba nation must strive to continually be relevant in Nigeria’s political matrix and federal arrangement. We must not relent in networking with other ethnic groups. This has become imperative in view of the fact that in the tripod called the North, the South-west, and South-east, no ethnic group can do it alone without the support of others. “We must struggle to register our presence at the centre. Any ethnic group that allows itself to be left behind will continue to be at the mercy of others. The Yoruba nation must continue to have voice in the project called Nigeria. This is in the overall interest of our kith and kin,” the governor stated.
Delivering a lecture at the event entitled: ‘The Yoruba Nation: For better today and tomorrow,’ the retired Archbishop of Methodist Church of Nigeria, Ayo Ladigbolu called for immediate restructuring of the country to fasttrack development. While also canvassing for true federalism, the guest speaker said “ having been a beneficiary of regional autonomy in my younger days , and having participated as an observer of regional politics, I still have strong feelings that regional autonomy ought to be returned to the Yoruba nation and other states in Nigeria.”
Ladigbolu who called for the preservation of Yoruba culture and heritage, said the idea of restructuring is that each component unit or ethnic nationality , no matter how big or small desire the strength in the number provided by the union with others , but not a uniformity that can retard it’s growth or swallow it up. “By and large , therefore, federalism presupposes a strong commitment to the non-centralisation of power , on account of the common recognition of the diverse nature of the polity. It is supposed to unite without destroying the selves that are uniting, and it is meant to strengthen them in their mutual relations . But is this the case in present day Nigeria?, “ he asked