Only a rapscallion or brute from the bay of crooks could fault a King for exhibiting his divine right to love and have children. Thus with no attempt at mischief, it couldn’t be wrong or distasteful for the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamide Adeyemi, to impregnate his wives at once. And if they all give birth at the same time, so be it. The women ensure that the royal libido never lacks attention and excitement from going into eternal flaccidity. Forget the onomatopoeia, monarchy and polygamy are like two peas in a pod; they, almost always, go together. When the monarch in question now happens to be a very generous old man, yet, gregarious and genial, the pressure to have as many wives to fill the rooms in the palace becomes even more overbearing. In Africa, especially in this part, kings enjoy massive royal influence so much that if they chose to teem their palaces with as many women as they so wish, they are not expected to be questioned by any human, rather, they should be given all the support to make their wishes come to fruition; this overriding influence is so pronounced in the South West that the Yorubas call kings ‘Kabiyesi,’ which literally translates to ‘he whose actions cannot be questioned. Yes, at 80, very few men of his age and class can handle the onerous tasks of living with so many wives. But the respected monarch unfurls into the task without a crease in his brow or the oft dreaded fear of exhaustion.
Interestingly, a couple of days ago, Alaafin of Oyo welcomed two sets of twins from two of his younger wives, Olori Memunat Omowunmi and Olori Badirat Ajoke. Apart from being co-wives and new mothers to twins, Olori Memunat and Olori Ajoke are also actually best friends.
In a recent post on Instagram, Olori Memunat wrote “My bestie!! God gat us, May good things fall on us!!” In another, she wrote “We gat each other’s back”. However, after welcoming twins another young wife of Alaafin, Omobolanle, announced her pregnancy. She shared the photos on social media showing that the king is expecting another child or possible twins In a few months now, Alaafin of Oyo will be a new father again despite having two sets of twins from two of his wives recently and other grown children. So besotted with the younger Olori Omobolanle is the Alaafin that he doesn’t let her out of his sight for too long else he would be lovelorn and forlorn. And the other wives are not oblivious to it.