Omololu Ogunmade in Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari thursday in Abuja said the federal government was preparing to achieve a regime of self-sufficiency in food production and consumption. He also said the government was radically cutting down imports of agricultural products which had depleted the country’s foreign reserve in the past. In a statement, the president’s media adviser, Mr. Femi Adesina, said Buhari made the remark while receiving a letter of credence from the High Commissioner of Singapore to Nigeria, Mr. Lim Sim Seng, in the State House. The president, the statement added, observed that the era of high import bills on food was fading away with growing investments in agricultural sector, favourable weather and collective will of Nigerians to feed themselves, and export products. “I am very pleased with the relationship we have with Singapore, and we are benefiting a lot from your experiences and investment. “Recently, I was in Kaduna to commission one of your investments in agriculture. We are happy that you are also looking at the agricultural sector because that is integral to our economic blueprint for diversifying the economy,’’ he was quoted to have said. The statement also said the president further observed that bilateral relations with Singapore would be further strengthened so that both countries could enjoy the benefits of competitive advantage, especially in exchange of ideas and technology that will enhance growth and improvement in the livelihood of citizens. Adesina said Buhari also received letters of credence from the High Commissioner from The Philippines, Mrs. Shirley Ho-Vicaria and High Commissioner of the Republic of Uganda, Nelson Ocheger, assuring them of Nigeria’s cooperation with their countries on economic, security and diplomatic issues. “In his response, the High Commissioner of Singapore said his country could go into partnership with Nigeria in exchange of technical skills, training of entrepreneurs and public servants.
“Describing Nigeria as the ‘big brother of Africa,’ Seng said an investment in the country would naturally result in growth for the entire continent,” the statement added.