Segun Awofadeji in Gombe
The Jos Ecclesiastical Province of the Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion) has unfolded its plans to begin the rehabilitation and reconstruction programme in the North-east. Newly elected Provincial Archbishop of Jos Ecclesiastical Province, Most Reverend Henry C Ndukuba, stated this in his charge  at the end of the 14th Jos Provincial Council meeting held at the St. Peter Cathedral Church, Bolari, Gombe yesterday. He explained that the programme would among others, include the provision of scholarships to orphans and relief to internally displaced persons (IDPs) affected by the Boko Haram insurgency, as well as communal clashes in the North-east. The Jos Ecclesiastical Province is made up of Plateau and all the six states of the North-east geopolitical zone.
In an interview with joournalists after the Eucharistic and thanksgiving service for his presentation as the new Archbishop of Jos Province, Most Rev. Ndukuba said he had directed all dioceses within the province to open up scholarship for orphans and displaced persons with a view to rebuilding lives. He disclosed further that the province would also seek funds as well as collaborate with government to rebuild churches destroyed in Adamawa, Borno, Bauchi, Taraba, Yobe, Gombe and Plateau States.
He restated his commitment towards fulfilling the vision and mission of the church through ministering, touching and impacting on lives in order to move the church forward. He challenged members of the church to go back to God in prayer as a solution to the prevailing challenges of insecurity caused by Boko Haram insurgency and clashes between farmers and herdsmen.
“We will engage in ministering and challenge our members to remember the mission of the church missionaries.
“We must call ourselves to prayer,  we need to go back to God in prayer to find lasting solutions to the prevailing insecurity challenges,” he said. Earlier, while on a courtesy call on Governor Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo, Archbishops, Bishops and delegates to the 14th Jos province council meeting, sought the intervention of governors under the Northern Governors’ Forum (NGF) to disarm killer herdsmen.
The Anglican Church leaders equally called on government to include religious leaders in programmes aimed at rebuilding the North-east.