By Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja The Coalition for Monitoring Good Governance and Assessment in Nigeria  (COMGAN) has described as  unfair, the  assessment of the Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong by the Minister of Sport, Solom Dalung, saying some of the projects inaugurated by President Muhammadu Buhari during his visit to the state were implemented by  the governor. Its Executive Director, Ikpa Isaac, who addressed journalists yesterday in Abuja yesterday, accused the Dalung of not being fair in his assessment of the achievements of the state government. He stressed: “the unfair assessment of the state government by certain individual would have been ignored and focus on our work of assessing the extent to which elected officers are able to deliver good governance to their constituents but for two reasons. “One, it is dangerous for highly placed persons to be unfair in their assessment about the performance of a government as done by Dalung. “Secondly, failing to expose the unfair comments and assessment about the performance of an elected officer may discourage others from delivering on their mandate.” “What we found on ground is that Governor Lalong’s administration has delivered on its mandate on various projects.  This is especially gratifying when the areas he has focused on are aspects that directly touch on the life and well-being of the people of the state.” The group noted that the minister has every right to seek political outcomes that suit his desire, but his lack of fair assessment on what the state government has achieved is condemnable. The executive director said: “It is therefore shocking that there are people that have resorted to playing politics with the achievements that have been recorded in Plateau State by seeking to create the impression that there is nothing that has been done by the incumbent state government. “The claims made by Dalung do not only conflict with the realities on ground in Plateau State but also present his party, the APC, as running a corrupt government. “In our opinion, the kind of people that will lie about a governor’s performance in office simply to score cheap political points are dangerous to the polity,” the group noted.