John Shiklam in Kaduna
The Kaduna State Government has directed that security be beefed up at the border between Kaduna and Plateau States following clashes between border communities in the two states. Several people were reported killed and houses burnt when  fighting broke out between Kigam village in Kauru Local Government Area of Kaduna State and a neighbouring community in Bassa Local Government Area of Plateau State where there had been persistent attacks and killings by gunmen suspected to be herdsmen. About 30 people have been reported killed in communities in Bassa Local Government Area in the past one week.
It was learnt that the bloody clash erupted following allegations by the Plateau community that the  herdsmen attacking and killing them were allegedly being  harboured by the Kaduna community. The Kaduna State government said every step should be taken to bring those behind the crisis to justice.
The statement said the clashes were between Kigam village in Kauru Local Government Area of the state and a community in Bassa Local Government Area of Plateau State. The statement signed by Samuel Aruwan, spokesman to Governor Nasir el-Rufai, lamented: “Lives and property were lost in the clashes, especially in Kigam village of Kauru Local Government Area and a community in Bassa Local Government Area of nearby Plateau State.” Aruwan said el-Rufai has directed security agencies in Kaduna to work with their counterparts in Plateau State to contain the crisis along the border between the two states.
The statement regretted that  certain elements in the border communities succumbed to the tragic cycle of attack and reprisal. It condoled  with the families who lost their loved ones and property, adding that  the state emergency authorities have been mobilised to provide relief.
Aruwan said: “The Governor of Kaduna State, el-Rufai, has received reports of communal clashes in the border area with Plateau State… “The governor is saddened by this unfortunate incidence, and he has since condoled families of the victims and has directed that urgent security measures be taken around the border with Plateau State to secure lives and property. “The governor directed security agencies operating in Kaduna State to liaise with their counterparts in Plateau State and ensure that Kaduna State citizens are adequately protected, communities secured and that there be no escalation of the mayhem.
“The state governor further directed security agencies to work hand in hand with their Plateau State counterparts to ensure that those that killed our citizens are arrested and brought to justice.”