In a bid to commemorate the World Oral Health Day and advocate for good oral hygiene among Nigerians, top toothpaste brand, Pepsodent Nigeria partnered with the Nigeria Dental Association and other stakeholders for the Oral Health Walk held in Ikeja on Friday, March 16, 2018. The health walk commenced at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja, and ended in Johnson Jakande Tinubu Park, Alausa, Ikeja. Notable celebrities, actors and social influencers like Kaffy, Odunlade Adekola, Fathia Balogun, Muyiwa Ademola, Ruth Kadiri, Shredder Gang and August Secrets.ng came out to support Pepsodent, as well as Health professionals, under graduate students, banks and Unilever Nigeria employees. Free dental checks, free Pepsodent toothpaste, and oral health educational materials were given to passers-by during the walk Reiterating the need to prevent tooth decay, which is the world’s most widespread, chronic disease, Pepsodent used the walk to canvass for the adoption of good oral care habits, including brushing twice daily (morning and night) with a fluoride toothpaste. Speaking at the event, Toluwaleke Salu, category manager, oral care, Unilever Nigeria said, “Tooth decay is a global widespread disease which affects 3 out of 5 children, and almost all adults. This disease can be prevented via good oral hygiene practices. This health walk is part of Unilever Nigeria continuous effort to fight oral diseases in Nigeria, and promote good oral hygiene. “Pepsodent consistently advocates the need for Nigerians to imbibe the culture of brushing twice daily by using a fluoride toothpaste. We remain committed to improving the oral health of 10 million Nigerian children by 2020, through the Pepsodent ‘brush day and night’ Schools Program, where we educate kids on the importance of brushing twice a day (morning and night),” Salu concluded. While speaking to journalists, Dr Bode Ijarogbe, President of the Nigerian Dental Association said: “With the growing rate of tooth decay, this walk is intended to promote worldwide awareness of the issues surrounding oral health and reiterate the importance of good oral Themed ‘Say Ahh: Think Mouth, Think Health’, the 2018 World Oral Health Day (WOHD) celebration will take place on Tuesday, March 20, 2018 at The Arcade, Eko Club, Surulere, Lagos.