Heritage Bank Plc has achieved the Information Security Management Certification from International Standards Organisation (ISO). This certification also known as the ISO 27001: 2013 is part of the ISO 27000 family of standards which helps organisations keep information assets secure. A statement from the bank explained that the certification was achieved on the heels of its drive to revolutionalise the banking sector digital experience with Octopus, by putting in place a systematic approach to managing sensitive organisational information, ensuring it remains seamless, secure and available. “The Octopus platform owes numerous benefits to the users, thereby enable small businesses key into electronic payment system easily, efficient collections, social integration, retention strategy, bills payment, mobile virtual top-up, funds transfer, balance enquiry, movie show time, news,” the bank stated. Commenting on the certification, the MD/CEO of Heritage Bank Plc, Ifie Sekibo reiterated the bank’s commitment to secured services, whilst assuring customers that their information is appropriately protected and, as such, reduces the need to undertake time consuming and costly onsite security audits reducing time and cost for both parties. According to him, the certification demonstrates credibility and trust, which reduces customer and supply chain audit and ISO 27001 certification reduces third party scrutiny of your Information Security Management by customers and the wider supply chain. “The achievement of ISO 27001 will differentiate two competing organisations in the market place, providing a valuable competitive advantage. “Increased legislative and regulatory compliance ISO 27001 supports compliance with relevant laws such as the Data Protection Act 1998 and software copyright legislation. “This in turn reduces the risk of facing prosecution and fines. An organisation’s liability in security incidents may be reduced if it is certified ISO 27001 compliant,” he explained. He further stated that the latest certificationreduces customer and supply chain audit, adding that ISO 27001 certification also reduces third party scrutiny of your Information Security Management by customers and the wider supply chain. “As ISO 27001 is the current international benchmark for Information Security Management, it is increasingly recognised that compliance with the standard is supportive evidence of adequate security.”