Edo State Government has urged appointees and top government officials to mobilise their constituents in local government areas to register on the EdoJobs portal, a platform set up to coordinate skills development and job creation initiatives and tackle unemployment in the state. In a statement by the Senior Special Assistant on Skills Development and Jobs, Ukinebo Dare, the state government said that there are existing vacancies for jobs and upcoming training on the portal. “We humbly appeal that you use your good office to reach out to constituents in your local government so they can apply for jobs and upcoming trainings,” the aide said. She explained that opportunities advertised on the portal cut across all senatorial districts in the state and there are relevant vacancies for various levels of qualifications and ages. The governor’s aide said that the EdoJobs 2.0 is a relaunch of the project, which is the skills development programme set up to meet Governor Obaseki’s desire for job creation and employability of residents in Edo State. Recall that the state government reopened the EdoJobs portal on March 2, calling on residents in the state to register for job and training opportunities. At the press conference to relaunch the programme, Dare explained that the state government is partnering with organisations that are specialised in Information and Communication Technology (ICT), mobile phone and laptop repairs, automobile mechanics among others, to train youths across the three senatorial districts in the state. The training, she said, “is designed in such a way that some programmes have stipend packages, start-up packs while others have business support packages for trainees. The programme will also address the needs of the participating business partners and individuals.” She added that youths will be trained in various skills to meet the increasing demands for highly skilled workforce in the state. “The objective of the programme is to enable the state government prepare youths as entrepreneurs and employers of labour in line with the vision of the Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, to create 200,000 jobs,” she said.