In order to tame the of employment and bolster the capacity of Nigerian university graduates to become net employers of labour, the Entrepreneurship Organisation is holding the Grand Final of 2018 Global Student Entrepreneur Awards (GSEA) at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library, Oke Mosan, Abeokuta on Tuesday, April 3, 2018. The event which is a global competition for undergraduates and graduate students who own and operate businesses see these budding entrepreneurs compete against their peers around the world for the chance to win capital from sponsor organisations. Finalists across various tertiary institutions in Nigeria numbering 25 qualified for final. Their business ideas and products would be showcased at the event on Tuesday. These undergraduates have made in-roads in the world of Agro-allied ventures, Manufacturing, Services, construction, real estate, software design and Information Technologies, arts and crafts, etc.  The competition, started last year, has uncovered many potential employers of labour. Many of them are doing businesses worth hundreds of millions in naira, according Mr. Ayodele Aderinwale, the Chair, GSEA of the Lagos Chapter of the Entrepreneurs’ Organization (EO) Nigeria.  The three top entries for this year are from:  The three top entries at this year’s event and their profiles are provided hereunder: Olarewaju Fadodun, Microbiology : Obafemi Awolowo University; Aliyu Bello Aliyu Pharmacy: Ahmadu Bello University Zaria and Olarewaju Fadodun, Business Administration :National Open University Of Nigeria  EO is the world’s only peer-to-peer global network exclusively for entrepreneurs.  Founded in 1987, EO enables business owners to learn from each other, leading to greater business success and an enriched personal life. The organization has more than 160 chapters in 50 countries including Nigeria.  A major focus of EO is to build the capacity of its 12,000+ members to grow their businesses through a range of activities such as face-to-face encounter scenarios, building workshops and interactive sessions with accomplished entrepreneurs and business leaders with track records of integrity and success  EO is tirelessly committed to making meaningful contributions to the society and the GSEA is one of its Corporate Social Responsibility efforts.  A panel of judges made up of entrepreneurs who have achieved success, wealth of experience and knowledge of the Nigerian Business Environment interrogated these business ideas.  These young entrepreneurs will be mentored through sharing of personal experiences and sponsorship by successful entrepreneurs, EO (Nigeria) said.