David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka The Anambra State Government has announced that the inauguration ceremony of the governor for a second term in office would span three days, beginning from today. A statement by the Chairman of the inauguration committee, Hon Ifeanyi Ibezi, stated that the ceremony would span Friday, March 16 through Sunday, 18. “The programmes of activities include a business roundtable with a theme; ‘Consolidating the Vision’, which would take place in Awka today. “This will be followed by the formal inauguration ceremony at Ekwueme Square, Awka tomorrow.
“The concluding part of the inauguration ceremonies would be a thanksgiving mass to be held St. Patrick’s Catholic Cathedral, Awka on Sunday, March 18, 2018.” Ibezi explained that the convocation of the Anambra Business Roundtable is to signpost the trajectory of Governor Obiano’s second term which is targeted at ushering in a “Greater Tomorrow” for Ndi Anambra.
The business roundtable, he said, would bring together critical stakeholders from the public and private sectors to highlight growth opportunities in the emerging industries in Anambra State. “At the end of the roundtable,” he said, “new partnerships would be established aimed at making lives better for ndi Anambra, through sustainable value creation.” He added that Edward Kallon, the United Nations Resident Coordinator, would lead international development partners to the roundtable event, while events for the swearing-in proper had been concluded. “It is not only an Anambra State event, but also in the entire South-east geo-political region. The various 21 local government areas in the state have been sensitised to participate in the ceremony.” Ibezi said the swearing-in ceremony would be witnessed by dignitaries from across Nigeria and some select foreign countries. THISDAY reported that as a result of the forthcoming inauguration, the capital city, Awka, has worn a new look as decorations are springing up in various parts of the town.
The decorations are more visible around the Dr. Alex Ekwueme Square area, which has been mapped out as the venue of the inauguration. The area is decorated with yellow and green colours which are the dominant colours of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA).