GOTV BOXING NIGHT 14 Kenya’s Michael “Shaka” Nyawade, who is billed to fight Nigeria’s Waidi “Skoro” Usman for the African Boxing Union (ABU) featherweight title at GOtv Boxing Night 14, has boasted that he will make his opponent dizzy within the first three rounds. The event, which holds at the Indoor Sports Hall of the National Stadium, Lagos, provides Skoro another opportunity to get his hands on the continental title, following his loss to Uganda’s Edward “Shaka” Kakembo in December 2015. Speaking from Nairobi, Kenya, Nyawade, who has won 18, lost four and drawn two out of his 24 fights, said he is coming to Nigeria to shame Skoro on his home patch. “I saw his fight against Kakembo, who defeated him. I am better than Kakembo. He will be dizzy within the first three rounds. It is time to show the world that Kenyans are as good in boxing as in long distance races. Skoro does not stand a chance. That is obvious to everybody, who understands boxing, except him. He probably does not understand the sport,” he said. Skoro’s fight records are by no means shabby. The West African Boxing Union (WABU) champion has won 13 and drawn two of his 15 fights, some of which include master-classes in demolition of opponents. Both boxers look evenly matched for a contest that promises to be explosive, especially with Skoro’s keenness for redemption after his loss in 2015. In another international title fight billed for the event, the hugely promising Rilwan “Baby Face” Babatunde will seek to extend his unbeaten record and win first international title when he takes on Djossou “Agoy” Basile of the Republic of Benin for the West African Boxing Union welterweight title. Baby Face, who won the national light welterweight title last year. Equally billed to hold at GOtv Boxing Night 14 is the national lightweight title fight between Rilwan “Real One” Oladosu, winner of the best boxer award at GOtv Boxing Night 13, and Kazeem “Ijoba” Badmus. The fight line-up is completed by four fights. One of these will see incumbent ABU lightweight champion, Oto “Joe Boy” Joseph, in action against the tough policeman, Prince “Lion” Nwoye in a challenge contest. In the cruiserweight category, Abiodun “Finito” Afini will take on Razak “Hyena” Ramon. The super middleweight category will feature Chukwuebuka “Wise King” Ezewudo will confront Sulaimon “Jagaban” Olapade, while Majesty Maduka will face Sulaimon Adeosun. The best boxer at the event will go home with a cash prize of N1million.