Globacom has pledged its support for the ongoing Kaduna Trade Fair as part of its support for small and medium scale industries in the state and Nigeria at large. A statement from the company said the fair equally provided opportunity for the company to engage in SIM Sales, registration and re-registration, product offerings, customer query resolutions via access to a dedicated Globacom pavilion where the company’s staff are available to attend to customers within Kaduna and its environs. In a press statement issued in Lagos, Globacom said that the fair would provide a very good platform to engage with its numerous customers. The company added that it was willing to lend its support to the realisation of their social and business aspirations, using its rich bouquet of products and services. The company, which expressed readiness to continue to partner with KADCCIMA in order to enhance the growth of small and medium scale industries in the state, said they were the bastion of economic advancement of nations and reiterated its readiness to continue to improve the quality of service in Kaduna State and environs. The trade fair with the theme, “Promoting Commerce, Industry and Agriculture for International Competitiveness” was conceptualised by the Kaduna State Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (KADCCIMA) to accommodate various participants from within the state and across the country on a viable platform to exhibit their products, meet potential buyers and increase the state’s economic growth. Dr. Muheeba Dankaka, President, KADCCIMA explained that this year’s fair holding at the Kaduna International Trade and investment Centre, Rigachikun, Kaduna was unique because more than  10 countries were participating. “They won’t only be trading but will also be bringing in their expatriate knowledge so that Nigerians can partner and learn from them. We have participating industries from countries like the US, Egypt, Iran, India, China, Mali, Tunisia, Indonesia, Senegal, Niger, Pakistan, among others. We hope that at the end of the fair, we will have at least 20 to 30 new industries springing up in Kaduna”, she said. 