Yekini Jimoh in Lokoja The Kogi State Government has confirmed the killing of Chief Musa Edibo, the Onu of Agbenema, and three others by suspected Fulani herdsmen during an attack at Agbenema in Omala Local Government Area of the state. The state Police Command in a statement had earlier denied any death of a traditional ruler at Agbenema community during an attack by some suspected Fulani herdsmen. However, the government had also promised to offered N5 million as reward to anybody who could volunteer information leading to the arrest of those who terrorised and killed people in Ojuwo Ajamàgbe and Agbenema in Dekina and Omala Local Government Areas of the state. According to a statement issued yesterday by the Director General of Media and Publicity to the governor, Mr. Kingsley Fanwo, the government is immensely saddened by the attack on Agbenema, a peaceful community in the state by mercenaries reportedly working for herdsmen in the area. The statement confirmed that a total of three persons were killed, including Chief Edibo, the Onu of Agbenema. Fanwo further stated that other persons were also injured and are currently hospitalised and responding to treatment. He said intelligence reports showed that the attackers at Agbenema on March 19, 2018, appear to be the same group which attacked Ojuwo Ajamàgbe, near Oganenigu in Dekina Local Government Area five days earlier. “Kogi State Government and the security services are sparing neither expense nor effort to track down these murderers and ensure justice is served. “We once again reiterate our total commitment as a government to the security of lives and property in the state, and extend to all peaceful and law-abiding citizens and residents, irrespective of religion or tribe protection,” he said. The state government also offered a reward of N2 million for information which could help to preempt and prevent future attacks on any of the communities. He noted that the state Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, was committed for quick and full recovery to persons injured in these attacks as he also sent heartfelt condolences to the families of the deceased.