By Yinka Kolawole in Osogbo Youths in the Osun State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have encouraged former Minister of Aviation, Chief Femi Fani Kayode, to contest the next governorship election in the state. The PDP youths under the aegis of Osun PDP Progressive Forum, said Fani-Kayode has the potential to lead the state to a promised land, stressing that the dreams of the founding fathers of the state will be brought to life if he (Fani-Kayode) becomes the governor of the state. The Coordinator of the group, Mr. Kayode Olaiya, who extolled the virtues of the former minister, stressed that the state needs an experienced and faithful politician like him to attain a lofty height. He said the misdeeds of the present administration in the state under the leadership of Governor Rauf Aregbesola can be corrected if a man like Fani-Kayode succeeds him. The state, according to him, needs a vibrant, courageous and exposed person like Fani-Kayode to ensure its overall development, saying: “We need a man of vision for this state to develop and to ensure that the labour of heroes past does not go in vain.” Olaiya who called on the leadership of the PDP in the state to embrace Fani-Kayode, said his choice would draw support for the party at all levels during the governorship election. Describing Fani-Kayode as a grassroots politician and a courageous leader, Olaiya said:  “Fani-Kayode has the potential to lead the state, and his welfarist programmes will be of immense benefits to the state. “Fani-Kayode is the kind of person we need in a time like this when our economy is being challenged and the state is facing serious challenges of poor welfare, social problems and underdevelopment. He has answers to the questions an average person is asking in Osun State today. He will bring solution to the problems confronting our people.” He added: “As a member of the Federal Executive Council, Fani-Kayode had served this country at a higher level and he has the capacity to serve the state and deliver effectively. It is therefore important to allow him contest on the platform of the PDP, and with him, the party is sure of victory.” Also, he called on Fani-Kayode to declare his interest in the gubernatorial race and make known his manifesto for the state. 