• He’s a blessing to Nigeria, says APC leader
Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti
Following the killings and economic downturn being experienced by Nigerians, the Ekiti State Governor,  Ayodele Fayose, has told  those who  brought President Muhammadu Buhari in 2015 to seek God’s forgiveness for the untold hardship experienced by Nigerians.
Fayose regretted that Nigeria’s economy had become worse under the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led federal government, which he noted had no solution to the myriads of problems facing the country. But a chieftain of the APC, Mr. Akinlayo Kolawole, described President Buhari as a blessing to Nigeria, considering the way he has fought corruption and insurgency. Kolawole said Buhari has helped in reviving the economy from recession due to prudent management of resources, saying: “Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was so reckless that this couldn’t have occurred under it. Nigeria would have collapsed if not for Buhari.” The APC chieftain called on delegates saddled with the task of electing the party’s leaders in the May 5 primary to consider competence, experience, commitment to the progressive ideals of the party, and mass appeal of the aspirants before making their choice . Fayose spoke yesterday at a meeting of the Osoko Mass Movement which was attended by representatives of labour unions, civil servants and public institutions in the state. He said: “People who voted Buhari must seek repentance. The people thought he was coming to make a difference but he has caused more economic hardship. We are being ruled by fiat. Unemployment is second to none. The Transparency International said corruption had become worse among Nigerians.” The governor urged the people to vote for a well-educated candidate in the election and should not to sell their votes. He said his deputy, Prof. Kolapo Olusola, is the most read and suitably qualified candidate to lead the state. “If you say I’m not educated, now I have presented a professor. We are not supposed to retrogress, we should rather progress. A professor is higher than a doctor and supervises him. By all standard, I’m presenting the most suitably qualified aspirant. “Our interest was somewhere else but his name kept reappearing. Ekiti State needs continuity. I have put in my best in the circumstance, and I know he will do it better. “Buhari spent N40billion searching for crude oil in the North, where is Fayemi looking?” He asked. Speaking about the coming governorship poll, the APC leader added: “Money should not be part of the requirements to occupy public office which has been one of those ways President Buhari has been fighting corruption, so, we must consider aspirant’s  commitment, consistency, contributions to party development. “We are operating as an opposition party in the state, so we need to ensure that the best among the aspirants currently jostling for the party’s flag is presented as candidate for the election.” Kolawole therefore called on the leadership of the party to ensure that the forthcoming primaries of the party was not only transparent, but free, fair and credible, adding that “anything short of these would engender crisis, acrimony and division within the party.”