By Azuka Ogujiuba The iyalode of Nollywood, Mo Abudu keeps soaring in the movie industry, doing what she knows best, as her new movie, The Royal Hibiscus Hotel (RHH), takes another step with an exclusive screening at the residence of the Deputy British High Commissioner, recently. The RHH was done by EbonyLife Films, producers of Fifty, The Wedding Party and The Wedding Party 2. The private showing was a well-attended, lovely and intimate occasion. Laure Beaufils, Deputy British High Commissioner to Nigeria, said she had a wonderful time and was pleased with the event. She described the movie as “beautiful and a delight to watch. I thoroughly enjoyed the film; it was funny, sweet and very well made. Also, it was a pleasant surprise to see Ope’s story begin and end in London,” she said. Guests at the screening included Mo Abudu, CEO, EbonyLife Films; Uzoma Onwuchekwa, Executive Director, EbonyLife Films; Wale Adebajo, Head of Communications, British High Commission; Nnamdi Okonkwo, MD, Fidelity Bank; Ayo Subair, Chairman, Lagos Internal Revenue Service (LIRS); Jamie Christoff, Deputy High Commissioner at Deputy High Commission of Canada; Mr. and Mrs. Asue Ighodalo; Mr. and Mrs. Peterside and German Consul General in Lagos, Ingo Herbert. Also present were members of the cast – Zainab Balogun, Rachel Oniga, Deyemi Okanlawon and Kemi ‘Lala’ Akindoju – and crew, including First Assistant Director Heidi Uys and producer Temidayo Abudu. The music, delicious finger-foods and sumptuous dessert added to the charming ambience of the event and thoroughly delighted attendees. Mr. Nnamdi Okonkwo commented briefly on the partnership with EbonyLife Films. “Fidelity Bank is proud to be associated with such a quality production from a company that is committed to reshaping the African narrative. RHH is a beautiful example of that commitment and we are honoured to have been part of it,” he said. Mo Abudu, CEO of EbonyLife Films, was pleased with the turnout and expressed her appreciation to guests. “Thank you all so much for showing up, it has been a delightful evening. A special thanks to Laure for opening up her home to us again; we are honoured. It was thrilling to witness your reactions throughout the movie. Please encourage your loved ones to go and see it in cinemas – they’ll enjoy it as much as you did,” she said. The Royal Hibiscus Hotel tells the story of Ope, a struggling Nigerian chef in London who moves back to Lagos and gets surprised, in more ways than one. The romantic comedy has something for everyone to enjoy and, based on the reactions of guests at the British High Commission screening, moviegoers yet to see it in cinemas are in for a treat.