By Ernest Chinwo in Port Harcourt Youths of the Niger Delta have expressed satisfaction with the appointment of Prof. Charles Dokubo to replace General Paul Boroh (Rtd.) as Special Adviser and Coordinator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme. The youths, under the aegis of Niger Delta Youth Movement (NYDM), in a statement issued yesterday in Port Harcourt and signed by the National President, Comrade Joe Jackson, said they were appalled by calls by one Ebitare Pere for the recall of Boroh who was recently sacked by President Mohammadu Buhari. Jackson said, “NDYM, as the umbrella body of all youth in the region, is enlightened enough to know that the appointment and termination of an appointee in the Federal Executive Council and indeed the Presidency is at the discretion of the President, that of Gen. Paul Boroh cannot be an exception. “We therefore wish to state that the so called Ebitare Pere is not known in the NDYM, he/she is not the National Spokesperson of our Movement neither is he/she the spokesperson in any of our nine State Chapters. Our National Public Relations Officer is Comrade Meduoye Asiki Goodluck.” He said politicians were using the names of youth of the Niger Delta region to pursue their personal goals and warned that youth of the region would resist the moves. His words: “We warn failed politicians from the region to desist from using the name of NDYM and indeed youth groups in the Niger Delta in this despicable manner as we shall strongly resist further attempt at pitching us against the very system they and their close family members exclusively benefited from. Politicians from the region who see their appointments as an opportunity to exhibit tribalism and parochialism should not use the name of the Movement to fight and threaten the Federal Government of Nigeria.” He therefore expressed satisfaction with the appointment of Dokubo and called on him to ensure he carries all sectors of the region along in the discharge of his duties.  “Flowing from the above, the Niger Delta Youth Movement heartily embraces the appointment of Professor Charles Dokubo as the new Special Adviser and Coordinator of Presidential Amnesty Programme.  “We therefore advise that he should be Pan Niger Delta in the discharge of his duty and learn from the mistakes of his predecessors so that the nine state governments, leaders and indeed the Niger Delta Youth Movement should support his stay in office,” he said.  He also thanked President Mohammadu Buhari for the appointment of “the erudite Scholar and Professor as we believe that he will bring his wealth of experience to bear in the discharge of his duties”.