Femi Ogbonnikan in Abeokuta with agency report Ogun State Governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun has commiserated with the family of the late former President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Chief Idowu Sofola, describing his death as a great loss to Ogun and the country at large. Sofola, an illustrious son of Ikenne, in Ikenne Local Government Area of Ogun State, died late on Friday night in Lagos. Amosun, who was at the Ikenne family home of the late Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) yesterday, described the late jurist as an icon, who served his community, town, Ogun state and the country in so many capacities, meritoriously. The governor noted that the deceased lived a good life and should not be mourned, but rather celebrated, while enjoining his widow and family members to be grateful for the life well spent by the octogenarian. He, therefore, prayed the Almighty God to grant the deceased an eternal rest. One of the deceased’s children, Barrister Shina Sofola, on behalf of the family, appreciated the governor for creating time out of his busy schedule to honour the late Sofola. According to the Secretary General of the YCE, Dr. Kunle Olajide, who confirmed the death of the prominent Nigerian jurist, bencher and former NBA President, the YCE was grieved and shocked over the sudden death of the octogenarian who took over the mantle of leadership of the council from late Gen Adeyinka Adebayo (rtd), adding that he was neither ill nor bedridden. “I spoke with him few days ago, congratulating him on the appointment of his son as a High Court judge and we were planning an event to host him. The icon is leaving us at a critical time, particularly in Yorubaland as the country prepares for the 2019 general elections. “He was an intelligent man of Yoruba extraction and the vacuum he left behind will be difficult to full. It is a great shock to me and YCE, a strong advocate and believer in true federalism, brilliant lawyer and defender of human rights and democracy”, he said. Sofola was born on September 29, 1934 and he was the first black man to be appointed the secretary of the International Bar Association (IBA). He was also a prominent member of the Ikenne Social Circle and the Obara Ruling House of Alakenne Royalty.