The Chairman of the Rivers State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Felix Obuah, has said no court issued an order for his arrest. A statement by Mr. Jerry Needam, his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity said reports which said that Obuah was summoned by a Rivers State High Court sitting in Port Harcourt, in respect of the killings in Omoku were incorrect. The statement said reports claiming that a court had ordered the police to arrest him was malicious and not a true reflection of what transpired in court. The statement read:
“We hereby state that before Justice Adolphus Enebeli of the Rivers State High Court was an application for perpetual injunction to restrain the police from inviting, arresting or detaining Chief Felix Obuah on the strength of criminal allegations made against him by the respondents which the court described as premature at this stage. “Also dismissed by the court was the separate notice of preliminary objections filed by the counsel to the police and the All Progressives Congress (APC) including Chibuike Amaechi as respondents challenging the competence of the suit and the legal capacity of Obuah to initiate the suit.” The statement said the court rather than directed Obuah to appear before it cautioned the police against arresting and detaining him (Obuah). It said the court warned the police against arresting Obuah having “noted earlier from overwhelming affidavit evidence by both parties that there were political ill-motive and vendetta in the threatened arrest and detention of the State PDP chairman, Obuah, by the police at the instance of APC and Amaechi in view of the criminal allegations made against Obuah at the eve of the re-run elections.” While giving details of what transpired in court, Obuah spokesman said: “The court judgment that the police have a statutory right to invite anybody else in course of preliminary investigation if need be, does not amount to an indictment or a directive for the arrest of Obuah or an invitation to appear for police questioning. “To put the records straight, Obuah was neither fingered in the Omoku killings, nor accused of gun-running nor sponsoring the Onelga killings- issues that were not before the court. “But suffice to say that the Rivers State chairman of the PDP, Obuah was never, has never and will never be part of any of the allegations.”