Remy Martin celebrated five of its past and current influencers for their global campaign – ’One Life/Live Them’. The event, themed ‘Opulence Revealed’ was held at the Rémy Martin XO Centaur Club in Lekki. Hosted by Mimi Onalaja, the intimate event celebrated five phenomenal trailblazers – Kemi Adetiba, Bayo Oke-Lawal, Zainab Balogun, Onyinye Maduka, and Kobi Mbagwu. Kemi Adetiba has been able to transition successfully across various fields; from being a lawyer to broadcasting, and on to filmmaking. Fashion designer, Bayo Oke-Lawal who established one of the biggest menswear brands in Africa, Orange Culture whilst being a creative writer for local and global fashion and lifestyle publications. He also co-hosted Shade Corner, a web series on Accelerate TV. Zainab Balogun is a TV host/Producer/actress who recently featured in ‘The Royal Hibiscus’ as the leading actress. Kobi O. Mbagwu and Onyinye Ilobi Maduka, who were selected as winners of the Slash Generation competition intended to inspire consumers. Kobi is a graduate of electronic engineering who acquired a diploma in fashion and luxury management; Onyinye co-founded a ready to wear line ‘iWearAsika’ with her sister after she worked as an Environmental Biologist. It was a unique evening which featured experiential tastings and an array of creative food presentations by two culinary experts; Chef Fregz and Afrolems who infused Rémy Martin cognac into their menu. Guests were treated to an amazing time with a full grand display of various culinary arts paired with Rémy Martin XO and 1738 cocktails as well as soft jazz music to keep them entertained throughout the evening. Rémy Martin Cognac announced the launch of the global campaign that recognizes and celebrates individual’s multi-talents in October 2015. Since then, the brand has selected and celebrated different individuals that embody the brand DNA. The campaign tagline, One Life/Live Them®, which assumes its grammatical error, identifies that today’s consumers are not defined by one talent or skill, but are multi-faceted and should be applauded for their many passions. Rémy Martin’s One Life/Live Them campaign encourages consumers to explore and celebrate all their talents. It is a call to live richer, larger lives, to expand the horizon and seize all the wonderful opportunities that life can offer, beyond the one-dimensional paths that former generations could have embraced.