Olawale Ajimotokan in Abuja The federal government has named a fresh appointee on the board of the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS) Kuru, Jos, to replace Senator John Shagaya, who died in a ghastly accident on February 11. A statement issued thursday by the Office of the Secretary for the Government of the Federation (OSGF), said Chief Ignatius Longjan also from Plateau State is the Chairman of NIPSS. He would be inaugurated along the board members.
Vice President Yemi Osinbajo will on March 20, inaugurate the boards of agencies directly under the supervision of his office. The statement said the inauguration would hold at the OSGF’s Conference Hall.
It added that prior to the inauguration, the chairmen and board members would be documented at the venue between the hours of 10.a.m. and 2p.m. It asked all appointees to present their curriculum vitae and valid means of identification, adding further vital information would be transmitted to them at the time of documentation.
Beside NIPSS, the National Boundary Commission and Borders Communities Development Agency are to be chaired by Osinbajo. The members of the National Boundary Commission include Ugochi Nnana Kalu, Yakubu Tsala, Mohammed Liking, Obong Rita Akpan, Bayo Olorunwo and Mohammed Liman. Other members include the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Minister of Defence, Minister of Police Affairs (now under Interior), Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Internal Affairs (now Interior), Minister of Works, Minister of Cooperation and Integration in Africa (now under Foreign Affairs), Minister of Economic Planning (now Minister of Budget and National Planning), Minister of Petroleum Resources, National Security Adviser, Inspector-General of Police and the Director-General of the commission (Secretary).
The members of NIPSS are Hon Abdulahi Matori, Dr Chidi Maduekwe, Dr Femi Majekodunmi, Ibrahim Kabir Masari, Senator Uche Ekwunife, Hon Temi Harriman, Chief of Defence Staff or other senior member of the armed forces, Minister of Science and Technology and Director-General of the institute. The following are the members of Border Communities Development Agency; Afam Ogene, Hon Saheed Salawe, Leonela J. Omo, Rabiu Gwarzo, Hajia Dumba D. Mikaila and Idris Sani Buko.