Hammed Shittu in Ilorin All Progressives Congress (APC) Joint Stakeholders Forum in Alanamu ward in Ilorin West local government council of Kwara state have reiterated their commitment to the sterling leadership of the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki. The forum also denied an online report that Dr. Hanafi Alabere who claimed to have reportedly decamped to PDP was a member of APC. A statement issued by the chairman of the forum, Hon. Kayode Omotose said the forum would continue to work with Saraki so as to bring more dividends of democracy to the doorsteps of the rural populace. According to the statement, “we are convinced in its entirety that the leadership of the Senate president has transformed the entire nooks and cranny of the Kwara central senatorial district where he represent in the area of education, health, empowerment, provision of infrastructure among others”. The statement also stated further that, “the claim of Dr. Alabere that he was a member of the APC before he decamped into opposition, PDP in the state is not true because he is not a member of the APC in Alanamu ward of Ilorin West local government council of Kwara state”. The statement stressed that, “Dr. Alabere does not undertake his political activities within the APC family. We have painstakingly rummaged the party registration list in our ward but his name does not appear anywhere and he does not carry APC card”. The forum added that, “To further crosscheck his so-called claim to membership of APC, we carefully looked through the attendance list of all meetings since the inception of APC at the ward level, the three senatorial districts which we operate and all the 24 zones that exists, his name has never been on any of the lists”. “While it is the inalienable right of all Nigerians who so wish to belong to any political party of his or her choice, we strongly take exception to the wrong claims of Dr. Alabere belonging to APC in Alanamu ward. Alanamu ward remains solidly within the APC and we are committed to the leadership of the Senate President Dr Abubakar Bukola Saraki”. The forum therefore advised the members of the public to disregard the claim of the Dr. Alabere noting that he has never been a member of APC in Alanamu ward of Ilorin west local government council of the state.