Ibrahim Shuaibu in Kano Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje married off one of his daughters, Fatima, to Oyo State Governor Abiola Ajimobi’s son, Idris, saturday in Kano in a grand ceremony, which took place at the Kano Central mosque. The ceremony was presided over by the Emir of Kano Muhammadu Sanusi II. The All Progressives Congress national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who stood as the groom’s representative, paid the sum of N50,000 as dowry, while President Muhammadu Buhari, who stood as the representative of the bride’s father, accepted the bride price in line with Islamic injunction. The wedding fatiha also saw the presence of about 20 governors as well as other dignities. During the wedding fatiha, Emir Sanusi II said marriage was a religious injunction which all believers must respect. “Marriage is a very important institution in the society. Allah has directed every Muslim adult who is gainfully employed or has a means of livelyhood to marry a woman he loves and the two, start up their home in love and harmony”, he added. The wedding brought activities in the ancient city of Kano to a standstill as visitors and well-wishers came out in large numbers to grace the wedding fatiha at the Kano Central Mosque. Our correspondent observed that 22 governors, led by the Chairman Northern Governors Forum, Abdul’aziz Yari, attended the ceremony. Some of the governors at the event include, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna, Mohammed Badaru Abubakar of Jigawa State, Yahaya Bello of Kogi, Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun and Rochas Okorocha of Imo. Also in attendance were the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, ministers, federal lawmakers and traditional rulers. The wedding fatiha took place amidst tight security, as a large crowd thronged the venue of the occasion to catch a glimpse of the eminent personalities present. Members of business communities, prominent Islamic scholars and members of the diplomatic corps, among others, also graced the event. A colourful reception was held at the government house.