Ugo Aliogo
The mobile-first consumer feedback platform known as mSurvey which allows businesses to obtain feedback directly from their consumers real-time, has been launched in Nigeria. Speaking to Journalists recently in Lagos at the Demo Day presentation, the Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Kenfield Griffith, said that West Africa is an extremely important market for us to expand into, further adding that they are excited to be bringing mSurvey products, as well as the Net promoter score to Nigeria. He also stated that from initial conversations with businesses from the corporate to small medium scale enterprises (SMEs) here, it is clear that there is a growing trend in the country to add value to the bottom line, through improved and more granular understanding of customers, power by technology and mobile. Griffith said the firm is the first to implement Net Promoter Score (NPS), which he noted is the internationally benchmarking practice used to gauge the loyalty of a brand’s customer relationship and their overall perception of a brand in Africa. He added: “One Kenyan company who implemented NPS has recorded a revenue turnaround of 800 percent. Java House, a leading Kenya consumer brand has also implemented NPS and recorded strong results with the CEO Ken Kuguru confirmed for the Nigeria mSurvey NPS Masterclass. “Introduced in 2003, NPS has been adopted by more than two-thirds of fortune 1000 companies, including Apple, Sony, Amazon, British Airways and Tesla and it is a tool used to drive business growth by measuring the loyalty that exists between a provider and consumer. It is based on responses to how likely a consumer would recommend a company, product or service on a 0 to 10 scale. “Following from its success in Kenya, mSurvey will be hosting the second customer loyalty NPS Masterclass in Lagos on March 20 and 21. Targeted at Heads of Customer Service, Head of Research, Chief Marketing Officers and Business Analysts, the mSurvey NPS Masterclass will cover alongside with Richard Owen, CEO of Owen CX Group, co-creator of the NPS metric and published author on NPS methodology. We don’t use secondary data, we recruit our audience. Messaging is free, no cost is charged.”