How much of Dr. Babatope Agbeyo, Chairman, Cornfield Group, do you know?
To many,  he is an entrepreneur  and philanthropist  par excellence.  To others,  he is simply a global citizen,  with a cosmopolitan outlook. No doubt, he fits perfectly into these descriptions.
But beyond this, the world again celebrated him last Monday,  when he shared  the stage with notable world leaders and achievers at the 5th Commonwealth Africa Summit  in London between March 12 and 14.
Agbeyo was invited by the organisers to speak on the topic: “Africa for Africans; A New Era of Africa Philanthropic Giving and Its Impact on the Continent.” He  delivered a keynote address during the opening ceremony alongside renowned global leaders like Lord Alan Watson of Richmond (Former Chair, Coca Cola Europe Advisory Board), John Dramani Mahama (Former President of Ghana), Mrs. Amina J. Mohammed (U.N. Deputy Secretary General), and Baroness Shreela Flather (Co-Chair Commonwealth Africa Initiative) , among others.
Other keynote speakers at the event included Senator Bukola Saraki (Senate President of Nigeria), Mrs. Folorunsho Alakija (Vice Chairman, Famfa Oil), Ashish Thakkar (Founder of Mara Group) respectively. The event started with an exclusive invites to wreath-laying ceremony and welcome reception at the House of Lords in honour of the UN Decade for People of African Descent on March 12. Now in its fifth year,  the summit is a high-level, multi-stakeholder event that annually brings together government and business leaders from across the Commonwealth, Africa and allied nations to facilitate dialogue and action on key and relevant issues ranging from trade and investment, entrepreneurship and job creation, economic development, security and counter-terrorism, energy and power, amongst other issues relevant to Africa.
The summit was attended by senior government and business leaders from across Africa and other parts of the Commonwealth, including CEOS, COOs, ministers, governors, civil society representatives, high commissioners, mayors and other stakeholders.
Agbeyo joined the league of renowned global leaders who have presented keynote address in the past. The list include Prince Andrew The Duke of York, Gen. Yakubu Gowon; Rt Hon Baleka Mbete (Speaker of the Parliament of South Africa), Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, Baroness Lynda Chalker of Wallasey; Lord Alan Watson of Richmond; Lord Ahmed of Rotherham; Baroness Uddin of Bethnal Green; Simon Walker, Director General of the British Institute of Directors (IOD); Clive Carpenter, Vice Chairman Business Council on Africa; Dr. Caroline Harper CBE – CEO Commonwealth Sightsavers; Mr Tonye Cole – CEO Sahara Energy; Ministers of Government, and many other global leaders.