The General Overseer of the Latter Rain Assembly (LRA), Pastor Tunde Bakare,  has said he cannot comprehend what President Muhammadu Buhari and 22 state governors were doing at the Kano wedding, while 110 Dapchi schoolgirls are still in captivity. Last Saturday, at least 22 governors converged on Kano, to celebrate the wedding of Idris Ajimobi and Fatima Ganduje, the children of the Governor of Oyo State Abiola Ajimobi and  his Kano State counterpart, Ibrahim Ganduje. Also in attendance was the president, and high-ranking members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), including former Governor of Lagos State, Bola Tinubu, Bakare, according to The Cable, said the wedding, which came two days after Boko Haram killed some UN aid workers in Rann, and two weeks after the abduction of the Dapchi school girls in Yobe, shows the insensitivity of Nigerian leaders. “Forgive my ill-mannerism, but I could not comprehend why a governor will celebrate the wedding of his daughter, and another governor of his son, on the front pages of newspapers, flashing it before our eyes, when other peoples’ daughters are in captivity,” Bakare said. “If any of them had lost a daughter in that captivity, would they celebrate that way? I know the Bible says rejoice with them that rejoice, but I do not know what the president of Nigeria was doing there. “And somebody came to say, let me explain to you, it is Islamic tradition, before this time, about January, they had agreed, that he (Buhari) will be the one to give the bride away and Tinubu will be the one to pay the dowry, and present the son, and they agreed long before now. “I looked at him and said the president of Nigeria wanted to come to my daughter’s wedding, and I said to him, sir, don’t come. That is beneath your office. Face the work of the state and keep serving. “And 22 governors showed up to mark register, when 110 daughters of citizens of your nation were captured by Boko Haram that you said you have already technically defeated? “It just shows how insensitive our leaders are. We have gotten to a stage that our president has become a king and a monarch. That his son who rode his pleasurable bike that almost claimed his life, will be returning from an overseas trip, where he had received special healthcare that Nigerians cannot afford, that it took a whole minister of state to go and welcome him, because he has no job.” Speaking at the Latter Rain Assembly yesterday, Bakare said anyone who knows the true state of things in Nigeria would weep for the country. “If you truly know the truth, you will weep, if you know how much we are owing as a country, you will weep. For 16 years of PDP, they borrowed N6 trillion, for three years of APC, they borrowed N11 trillion. “And they are not going to pay the debt. You and I, and our children, and our children’s children will pay the debt, unless they write them off again.”