The Edo State Joint Account and Allocation Committee (JAAC), has declared N2.8 billion as total allocation accrued to the 18 local government councils from the Federation Account for the month of February. This was disclosed by Chairman, Owan West Local Government Area, Hon. Frank Ilaboya, at the end of the first JAAC meeting attended by the newly elected council chairmen. The meeting was presided over by the Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, at the Government House in Benin City. Ilaboya, who briefed journalists after the meeting, said, “The total receipt for the month of February shared in March is N2, 882,200,775.85. Salaries for teachers is N1, 129,882,051.95; deduction for pension is N254, 778,771.98; while the mandatory deduction is N1, 583, 714, 385.70. The total distributable fund shared by the 18 local government councils is N1, 284,075,386.28.” He explained that N1.2 billion has already been shared by the 18 local government councils, adding that the sum has been transferred to various councils’ accounts. Ilaboya said, “We are ready to commence work. We will ensure we do our best to deliver the dividends of democracy to those at the grassroots. We have promised to complement the efforts of the governor who has urged us to be dedicated, committed, transparent and accountable in discharging our mandates.” Chairman, Esan South East Local Government Area, Hon. Victor Emuakhagbon, urged the people at the grassroots to support heads of their councils, noting, “We have resolved to focus on improving Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) as a means to deliver dividends of democracy to the people at the grassroots. We promise to be accountable and judicious in utilising resources.” Chairperson, Egor Local Government Area council, Hon. Eghe Ogbemudia, urged workers at the various councils to be dedicated, committed and co-operative with the present administration. She said, “People should make effort to pay tax to the appropriate authorities in the various council areas. Government will prudently use proceeds from tax to deliver its mandate to the people.” Chairman, Ovia North East Local Government Area, Osazee Ogbemudia, said, “We will work to complement the laudable programmes of the Obaseki led-administration and replicate the ‘wake-and-see’ phenomenon at the grassroots to make life easier for the people.” 