Okon Bassey in Uyo
No fewer than 20 suspects have been arrested by security operatives in Akwa Ibom State for alleged involvement in cultism, illegal possession of firearms and other nefarious activities barely two weeks after the proscription of 33 cult groups in the state by the state government. Also, it was learnt that the military Joint Task Force (JTF) killed at least 18 suspected criminals during the raid of their hide out in Etim Ekpo Local Government Areas of the state.
The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Akwa Ibom State Police Command, Odiko Macdon Ogbeche, disclosed arrest of those with dangerous weapons yesterday, while explaining efforts of the command to contain crimes in the state. He revealed that 17 of the suspects including two policemen, two University of Uyo (UNIUYO) students and a 29-year-old phone repairer at the Ibom Plaza round about, Uyo were among those arrested and now being prosecuted by the command.
According to him, one of the policemen, a sergeant, reportedly attached to the Ibom International Airport, his colleague also a sergeant, a security aide to a member of the state House of Assembly have been charged to court. He said the two students of the UNIUYO who were a second year accounting and third year philosophy undergraduates, were also put on docked and put on trial.
“We are the people who arraigned them; our ground men on combat operations arrested them in different parts of the state,” the PPRO stressed, adding that the command was also mopping up arms as directed by the Inspector General of Police (IG)”. They suspects, who were arraigned on a two-count charge of terrorism and illegal possession of firearms before Justice Archibong Archibong, at the Uyo High Court, have admitted being members of the proscribed Ku Klux Klaans (KKK) confraternity.
Justice Archibong said the alleged offences contravened section 6 of Akwa Ibom State Internal Security Enforcement Law 2009 and section 6 (1) of Firearms Special Prohibition Act, Laws of the Federation 2004. The case has been adjourned to May 3, 2018, for further hearing and cross-examinations of the suspects.
In another development, the Military Joint Task Force (JTF) has arrested two suspects with firearms in Ukanafun Local Government.
Sources alleged that those arrested were said to have led the JTF to their hideout in a forest in Ikpe community in Etim Ekpo Local Government Area, where they rounded up several others and killed about 18, while trying to escape during the raid.