The US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson saturday took ill and canceled all his planned events in Africa on Saturday. “The secretary is not feeling well after a long couple of days working on major issues back home such as North Korea,” Undersecretary of State for public diplomacy and public affairs, Steve Goldstein, told media outlets traveling with Tillerson. “Some events will go ahead without him, while they are looking at the possibility of rescheduling others,” he said.
Tillerson is on a working Africa tour that includes stops in Kenya, Chad, Nigeria, Djibouti and Ethiopia. While Tillerson was in Ethiopia, President Trump announced he accepted a meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. He will become the first sitting U.S. president to ever meet with a North Korean leader, although the White House says North Korea has to take “concrete” steps on denuclearisation in order to ensure the meeting happens. Tillerson’s schedule on Saturday included an event for the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) programme, a wreath-laying ceremony at the August 7th Memorial Park and a meeting with American diplomats serving at the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi. The PEPFAR event went on without him, according to the Associated Press. Tillerson planned to resume his schedule on Sunday, Bloomberg reported. There are also strong indications that Governor Bello may have concluded plans to run a second term of another four years; thus the need to replace those in the cabinet who have not added political value in swinging votes. For the Administrators, the governor equally plans for a cabinet that would be of electoral value. Owing to paucity of funds, the state cannot conduct council polls, according to the source. For now fear has gripped cabinet members, while the administrators also are on the edge on the next move by the governor on those to be returned. The administrators have spent over two years also in acting capacity, with many of them still interested in another three-year term if election is conducted, but latest information reveals that they may continue in appointed capacity and assist the governor in 2019.