Just when we thought that we have had the best of Nokia phone versions before the arrival of the brand’s latest and upgraded version, Nokia 8, we can boldly tell you that this new Android Nokia gives maximum satisfaction. In terms of unique features, powerful chipset, the dual sensor camera, super QHD display and the durability of the battery, are some the few features that give Nokia 8 an edge over other androids. The dual camera experience is another unique feature of  Nokia 8. With this, you are able to capture your moment as well as the moment in front of you all at the same time. The front and rear-facing cameras on the Nokia 8 have been co-developed with ZEISS optics for an optimum all round experience. The Nokia 8 introduces a world-first in enabling Dual-Sight video to be livestreamed natively and in real-time to social feeds such as Facebook and YouTube.  Dual-Sight simultaneously harnesses both the front and rear cameras in a split screen visual for both photos and videos. With just one touch, this world-first livestream capability gives more immersive experiences for those who love to create and share special memories. With a price range  fits in the upper, middle and upper class, Nokia 8 should have a stable place amidst the competitive android market. Now while we think that Nokia is sure a good phone, we recommend that it’s compatibility with some android applications such as “Logolicious” should be looked into in subsequent upgrades as well as other photo/video editing tools. There are two sides to every story and the Dual-Sight feature of Nokia 8is designed to help you create and share the full picture. The front and rear-facing cameras on the Nokia 8 have been co-developed with ZEISS optics for an optimum all round experience. 4.6mm thin at the edge and just 7.3mm slim on average, Nokia 8’sseamless unibody is precision milled from a single block of 6000 series aluminium and its pure design has been refined through a 40-stage process of machining, anodizing and polishing. Select models feature a high-gloss mirror finish that has taken over 20 hours to complete to achieve a flawless look. The phone features Qualcomm’s powerful Snapdragon™ 835 Mobile Platform and paired with the pure, secure and up-to-date Android experience ensures outstanding performance. Innovation and precisionengineering Powered by the Qualcomm® SnapdragonTM 835 Mobile Platform, Nokia 8 doesn’t compromise on performance. The Nokia 8 has been designed from the ground up with the consumer in mind to deliver unique content capture and sharing experiences. This requires it to beas meticulously designed on the inside as it is on the outside. To keep your phone working harder for longer, the design, innovation and engineering teams worked hand-in-hand to deliver. The result is a full-length graphite shielded copper cooling pipe that dissipates the heat generated by the high performing system across the full length and breadth of the handset. The Nokia 8 runs cooler in even the most demanding situations. Nokia 8 is Qualcomm Quick ChargeTM 3.0 compatible, meaning when your battery is running low you can get back to recording your important moments sooner. With such a large RAM, Nokia 8 provides you with limitless storage access as well as unnecessary slowing of applications.