Undergraduates from universities across the country recently converged on the Multipurpose Hall of the University of Lagos at the instance of Guaranty Trust Bank Plc for the maiden edition of the GTCrea8 Convention aimed at encouraging them to build a successful business career out of their passions. The one day convention featured masterclasses facilitated by captain of industries who not only enlightened the undergraduates with practical knowledge in their areas of passion, but also inspired them with first-hand experiences on how to build successful businesses. In her class titled ‘The Business of Creative Writing’, Lola Shoneyin, the author of ‘The Secret Lives of Baba Segi’s Wives’ exposed the participants to the art of writing compelling stories using some of her personal experiences. The co-founder and Managing Director of Flutterwave, Iyin Aboyeji, who led the class on ‘Technology’, encouraged the students to start small by aiming to solve the problems around them. Based on his personal experience, he advised the students to start from when they are still in school to start doing what they want to do after school. Other facilitators were the founder of BellaNaija, Uche Pedro, who led the class on ‘Digital Media’; the Creative Director of Anita Brows, Anita Adetoye took the class on ‘Makeup Artistry’; while Lanre Da Silva Ajayi, the Creative Director of the self-named fashion label led the class on ‘Fashion Design’. In his remarks, the Managing Director of the bank, Segun Agbaje said: “We are happy to provide young people in tertiary institutions with a platform that enables them connect with peers and interact with role models in their areas of interest. With the lineup of activities and the wealth of experience to be shared at the event, I am confident that the GTCrea8 convention will have a lasting impact in helping the undergraduates who attend build successful careers.” He said the bank is committed to supporting the aspiration of young people by providing them with first class financial service, empowering them to achieve their academic goals and providing them with the opportunity to live their dreams. “Guaranty Trust Bank Plc has been at the forefront of supporting education for all and champions several initiatives that provide undergraduates with various avenues to learn, interact and have fun while in school. Beyond the GTCrea8 convention, the bank also runs the GTCrea8 Education Support Scheme with which it offers financial support to undergraduates and the Campus Storms which brings digital skills training as well as popular musicians and comedians to universities across the country.”