By Yekini Jimoh in Lokoja The Kogi State Chairman of All Progressive Congress (APC), Alhaji Haddy Ametuo  has been expelled from the party by the factional party executive following his inability to appeal the allegation of anti-party activities and corrupt practices leveled against him by members of APC in Kogi State. The factional APC Executive also pass vote of confidence on the national  chairman of the party for his commitment to the party. The Acting Chairman of the party,  Hon.  Ahovi Salami Ibrahim  disclosed this yesterday during the swearing-in of the  new Executives members of APC in Lokoja. According to him, the ousted Chairman having been investigated by disciplinary committee of the party set up by the North Central Executive  Committee of APC found him guilty of the allegations leveled against him. His words,  “All Progressive Congress as a party has high regards for the party’s constitutional provisions and within  the part’s legal frameworks there are processes that will lead to a removal of a party chairman and other erring exco members which stop at the North Central Executive Committee of the party in this particular case. “It is within the ambit of the party’s constitutional provisions to come to terms to expel an erring member such as in the case of Alhaji Haddy Ametuo and his cohorts especially when the fact finding or disciplinary committee of the party appointed recently to examine the allegations of anti-party activities and corruption practices leveled against the former chairman. “It is pertinent  to note that Ametuo was given seven days of grace to appeal the decision of his expulsion,  but chose to remain silent which of course translated to consent of all the charges against him.” Ibrahim warned Haddy Ametuo to desist from parading himself as the state chairman of the party,  advising  him to pitch tent with other parties he (Ametuo)  has been hobnobbing with. While reiterating  the need for Kogi people to support President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Yahaya Bello for second term,  the Acting Chairman  said such feat would enable them to complete and consolidate the good works they had been doing across the state and the country. He commended the National Executive Committee of APC for approving additional  one year extension of the tenure all its Excos at all levels. Meanwhile, in a swift reaction,  the embattled Ametu said as far he was concerned, it was only the national executive of the party that could expelled him from the party.  He noted that those making noise were faceless people, or group that was being used by the state governor Alhaji Yahaya Bello.  “Am the authentic state Chairman of the party in Kogi State. The national secretariat of the party recognised us and we attend every meeting that we are invited.  Those group making noise in Lokoja are faceless people,  they are hungry and they are doing the bid of the governor, ” he said. 