By Funke Babs-Kufeji  Due to popular demand, ARISE Fashion Week (AFW 2018) will make a robust return from March 30 to April 2 at the Lagos Continental Hotel (formerly known as Intercontinental Hotel). It is destined to be an Easter extravaganza like no other.
Eleven years ago, Africa’s fashion industry became truly global with the birth of ARISE, the synonym for “Africa Rising”. ARISE Fashion Week helped to put Nigeria firmly on the global fashion map, showcasing and promoting African designers on the runways of the world, from London’s famous Royal Albert Hall, to Washington DC’s powerful J.F. Kennedy Center, to the legendary triple appearance during the iconic New York Fashion Week (NYFW), to vivacious Lagos and Abuja, to magnetic Johannesburg and Cape Town, and to fabulous Paris. The AFW runway has seen global fashion icons and leading models such as Naomi Campbell, Alek Wek, Liya Kedebe, Oluchi Orlandi and others showcase the best of Africa.
The event has also seen internationally acclaimed designers such as Gavin Rajah, Ozwald Boateng, David Thale, LaQuan Smith, Lanre DaSilva, DEOLA, Jewel By Lisa, Ituen Basi, Odion Mimonet and more fly the African flag.  From March 30 to April 2 at the Lagos Continental Hotel, ARISE Fashion Week 2018 will once again showcase the best and brightest fashion designers from around the world. Still the most prominent fashion show in Africa, ARISE Fashion Week 2018 continues to hold its prestige as the premier event where the global fashion elite will once again converge: the intersection of the international and the African; where a global audience of buyers, financiers, retailers, the fashionista and the media gather; where authenticity and originality meet innovation and style; where fashion truly matters. The AFW 2018 runway event in Lagos will feature 45 designers from 14 countries such as South Africa, Botswana, Tanzania, Uganda, Kenya, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Senegal, France, Morrocco, the United Kingdom, the United States , the Caribbean and Nigeria. As is custom, the best of these will be selected to showcase during NYFW in September this year. “We are excited to bring world class fashion back to Lagos in the real sense of it. The bar will definitely be raised once more with strong collaborations, innovation and creativity,”said Co-Producer Ruth Osime.
The official designers for this year’s fashion showcase will be unveiled this week.
For more information on ARISE Fashion Week (AFW) 2018 please follow @arisefashionweek on instagram
For Media Enquiries please contact: funmi@roberttaylormedia.com