Ernest Chinwo in Port Harcourt Rivers State Governor, Nysom Wike, has given his assent to the Rivers State Neighbourhood Safety Corps Law No.8 of 2018 in what he said was I a bid to improve the security of communities in the state. The governor also gave assent to the Rivers State Secret Cult and Similar Activities (Prohibition) (Amendment) Law No.6 of 2018 and the Rivers State Kidnap (Prohibition) (Amendment) No.2 Law No.7 of 2018. Giving his assent to the three laws passed by the state House of Assembly at the Government House, Port Harcourt yesterday, Wike said the laws were necessary to enhance security across the state. He said the Neighbourhood Watch Safety Corps would support existing security agencies with intelligence and information for them to effectively fight crime and make the state safer. The governor said that the Neighbourhood Watch Safety Corps cannot work without the approval of security agencies who will profile all its operatives. He said anybody who loves Rivers State would not do anything to undermine steps that will enhance the security of lives in the state. He said: “If your hands are clean, you have nothing to fear about the three laws that I have given assent to. Bytomorrow, I will appoint the person that will head the Neighbourhood Watch Safety Corps.
“All criminals will face the full weight of the law. We will fight crime and ensure that the state is safe for investors.” He debunked claims by opposition elements that the state government plans to use the Neighbourhood Watch to arm youths. The governor said that the corps is a replica of what is already in existence in Lagos State.
Commenting on the Anti-kidnapping and Anti-Cultism Laws, Wike said stiffer penalties have been approved to discourage those who may want to be involved in the offences. “If you are a cultist and you are caught, it is life imprisonment. If you are a cultist and you kill during cult activities, you will face the death penalty. “If you are convicted of kidnapping and the Supreme Court affirms your conviction, I will sign the death warrant without looking back,” the governor said. The governor said the state government would battle cultism and kidnapping to a standstill, noting that enough is enough. Senator representing Rivers West senatorial district, Senator Osinakachukwu Ideozu, said the laws assented by the governor would strengthen security operations in the state. Ideozu described as unfortunate the failed attempt by Senator Magnus Abe to mislead the Senate on the Neighbourhood Watch. He said it was within the purview of the Rivers State House of Assembly to pass the State Neighbourhood Watch Safety Corps Law for the security of the state. Ideozu commended Wike for being proactive in the promotion of security in Rivers State by giving assent to the three laws. Presenting the bills, Majority Leader of the state House of Assembly, Martins Amaewhule, said the laws provided for stiffer penalties in the interest of the state. He said the Neighbourhood Watch Safety Corps Bill was passed in line with extant laws and the constitution.
Speaker of the House of Assembly, Ikuinyi Ibani said the Rivers State Governor has made a difference through service delivery.