Meadow Hall has been rated outstanding by the Lagos State Ministry of Education upon a recent Whole School Evaluation carried out in the school. The evaluation was carried out by a team of 10 professionals, assigned by the Lagos State Government; the aim of which is to ensure that the standard of education set by the state government is met and upheld. During the week-long Whole School Evaluation, the team members focused on teaching and learning methods, governance, facilities, health, safety and leadership, especially as regards Meadow Hall College, Lekki. They participated in lesson observations, paying attention to methodology and mode of delivery. The team also interviewed Meadow Hall students and members of staff and other stakeholders with respect to behaviour, discipline, co-curricular activities and the level of involvement of staff, parents and the community. According to the Director General, Office of Education Quality Assurance, Mrs. Ronke Soyombo, the school was found “to be effective in the coverage of scheme and quantity/quality of work done as seen in learners’ written work”. The evaluation revealed that Meadow Hall provided quality education to learners in a conducive environment. The available performance data analysis also revealed that learners take part and excel in international examinations like Check Points and International General Certificate of Secondary Examination (IGCSE). Mrs. Kehinde Nwani, CEO/Founder of Meadow Hall Group, is delighted that the school was adjudged an outstanding school by Lagos State Ministry of Education. “Meadow Hall is committed to excellence and is passionate about the holistic development of children, and as such we have set high standards for the school, which all members of staff work towards to ensure we exceed expectations at all times. At Meadow Hall, we have a Quality Assurance and Control department that monitors and ensures that everyone does things right. This has helped us greatly in being consistent in the quality of education we offer and in maintaining high standards always,” she said.