Senator Iroegbu in Abuja The Director General of Consumer Protection Council (CPC), Mr. Babatunde Irukera, has said that over 70 per cent of Nigerians are still sceptical of the $2.3 trillion worth global online shopping. But Irukera has stressed that “E-commerce is the way of the future and a catalyst to economic growth.”
This, he said yesterday at the commemoration of the World Consumer Right Day 2018, themed “Making the digital market places fairer.” The event was attended by various chief stakeholders of the online marketing companies as well as retailers, such as Mr. Oluwaseyi Oni, Head of Corporate Governance, Jumia, Charles Ogbamebo, Regional Manager, Yudala-Konga Ltd and a couple of others. The DG, emphasised that the focus of this years commemoration is on the current experiences of consumers on the online market place He said: “One important thing that has come out of this meeting is that for the very first time, we as a regulator and then as a group with these key companies in the space, have adopted certain principles. These principles are what we recognise as important in the market place. It is a very important starting point in providing what we look forward to being a more structural and institutionalised regulatory regime for E-commerce, that would certainly increase consumer satisfaction. And diminish consumer aggravation. “In view of the dramatic rise in E-Commerce in Nigeria, with global online shopping reaching $2.29 trillion in 2017, but with 70 per cent of Nigerian Consumers worried about the safety of their transactions, the Consumer Protection Council and Senior Management of Online Marketing Companies understand the nature and scope of complaints generated in this space.” Pursuant to this understanding, Irukera said the Council and Online Marketing Companies adopted certain fundamental guiding principles. According to him, these principles are considered vital to the protection of consumers in the industry and relevant to Business Guidance and a Regulatory framework. He listed them to include: Online marketers recognise that a dedicated customer service apparatus, which is an indispensable corollary of e-commerce, is required to ensure engagement and a complaint resolution process which is not burdensome to the customer; and that Online market platforms recognise the importance of full frank and complete disclosures of any terms, conditions, exceptions or restrictions on products marketed on their platforms.
The principles also stated: “ Online marketers also recognise the need to promote consumer confidence and eliminate distrust. Advertisement of products should be truthful, transparent and factual, including current/future availability, specifications, merchantable conditions, quality and relevant warranty information. “Online market platforms recognise that timely delivery is a material and vital term of the contract/ agreement between platforms and their customers. As such, timely delivery including reasonable and fair return windows, prompt and efficient refunds and respect for cancellations in accordance with prevailing policy, are a matter of contractual obligations. “Online marketers recognise and respect the privacy of consumers and the need to protect such privacy by securing and only disclosing consumer data/personal information by operation of law or in accordance with consumer preferences. Speaking further, the CPC boss expressed his profound pleasure over the presence of the online marketing companies, he also congratulated them, saying “It is a privilege, and I am grateful most of the popular companies you know are here. “Some of the chief executives who are not here, have specifically, directly expressed their regrets and sent appropriate representatives. Some of the companies are not here, and in due course, we will convey that to you… First thing I want to do is congratulate you, all the companies that have come and like I said, what this tells us is that you value your customers. For the companies that have not come, it is not a perception of your relationship with the CPC, on the contrary, it is really a perception of how you value your customers
The meeting also resolved that parties commit to a broad-based stakeholder engagement to further promote and develop these principles, Business Guidance and regulatory framework. Parties recognise the urgency required and as such agree that the engagement and the guidance development process must occur and conclude shortly and timely.