By Justina Uzo The Lilygate Lagos, a premier business hotel in the exclusive area of Lekki Phase One is planning big for Easter.
Easter season is a celebration that climaxes in work-free days. It is perhaps this reason some hotels and other hospitality centres across the country are packaging well designed programmes to reward their patrons this Easter.
The Lilygate Lagos which opened four years ago and already a big success story, represents Business, Family and Romance all at the same time. The four Star deluxe hotel with 74 rooms and suites boasting amenities such as majestic lobby of high ceiling, beautiful grand sculptures, Italian hand crafted marble floorings, ornate chandeliers, grand staircase as well as a sophisticated and luxurious Banquet Hall, offers guests an iconic venue for wedding receptions, birthday celebrations, meetings and conferences. This Easter season, The Lilygate Lagos invites guests to unwind in the hotel offering mouth-watering discounts for its deluxe Standard and Superior rooms. All Easter guests also get 10% discount off Easter Sunday Brunch and for the family, two children under 11 years with adults eat for free and additional kids under 11years enjoy a 50% discount.
On Easter Sunday, there is an opportunity for families to get together for Easter Brunch. A sumptuous feast of Nigerian, Italian & Oriental dishes, Easter Eggs, Ice Cream, Chocolate Fountain and so much more all for just N11, 000 per person, await guests at the Lilygate’s Dunya Restaurant. Children under 11years with adults eat for free and other kids under 11 years enjoy a 50% discount during the Easter season which begins at March 29 and lasts till April 8, 2018. The Front Office Manager of the Lilygate, Lagos, Jessica Unukhe, who urged patrons to take advantage of the offerings and visit the hotel said, “this is certainly one of the best Easter Sunday Brunch offers in Lagos this season.”
According to her, “Easter celebrations continue on Easter Monday. Guests are invited to chill out by the pool, enjoy the hotel’s signature cocktails, refreshing local beers and grilled cuisine whilst listening to African music beats, all packaged to ensure all its guests have a fun-filled Easter season.”