Okon Bassey in Uyo
Parents Teacher Association (PTA) of Federal Government College in Ikot Ekpene Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State yesterday accused the Principal of the school, Mr. Festus Dappa, of allegedly engaging in fraudulent activities in the college. Speaking with journalists in Uyo, the state capital, the school PTA Chairman, Hon Imoh Abam, said the principal, who is about a year old in the school, has allegedly defrauded the college of over N100 million. The parents accused the principal of abuse of the Treasury Singly Account (TSA) policy of government; inclusion of completed projects in the 2017 appropriation and collection of illegal fees through disingenuous sub- heads among others. According, the PTA chairman, parents of students in the college are now calling on the Minister of Education to investigate the activities of the principal in order for sanity to return to the college. He said the PTA members were surprised that Dappa who was transferred out from the college was again sent back within two weeks to take over from the new Principal, Ms Gogo, D. J, brought in to succeed him (Dappa). “For sundry weighty reasons, we consider the return of Dappa to the college not only as unconscionable and a disdainful act of impunity, but also monumental assault on efforts by the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration to rid the country of corruption and enthrone integrity in public office,” he said. In a petition to the Minister of Education, the PTA members called for the immediate transfer of the principal, the Bursar, Dr. A. Ojiezele; Vice-Principal Special Duties, Dim, Boniface Onyemachi, and Vice-Principal Administration, Ndom Blessing Clifford. The PTA in the petition stressed that their transfer would pave way to unhindered investigation of the large-scale sharp management practices in the college.
The petition dated March 20, 2018, was captioned: ‘Save our souls: uproot the endemic extortion, fraud and corruption in Federal Government College Ikot Ekpene’. Besides calling for the full-scale investigation into the administration of the principal of college, the PTA equally demanded the refund of all unapproved monies extorted using UBA account number 1016686521 and other sources to the helpless victims. “We humbly invite you to kindly note that majority of us are poor farmers, pensioners, civil servants, widows, single parents and artisans who are completely overburdened by the prevailing harsh economic realities in the country,” the parents stated in the petition sent to the Minister of Education. Some of the placards displayed by the parents at the media interaction read: ‘Uproot corruption in FGC Ikot Ekpene’; ‘We say no to illegal fees levies in FGC, Ikot Ekpene;’ ‘Festus Dappa must go;’ ‘President Buhari kill corruption in FGC Ikot Ekpene’ among others.