MFM FC recorded a slim 2-1 win at home in Agege against MC Alger of Algeria in the CAF Champions League while Nigeria’s representatives in the CAF Confederation Cup, Enyimba went to next door Cotonou to beat Benin Republic’s Energie FC 2-0. Akwa United lost 1-0 away to Libya’s Al Ittihad. Earlier on Tuesday evening, the country’s second representatives in the CAF Champions League, Plateau United had lost 2-4 to Etoile du Sahel of Tunisia in Sousse. Chijoke Akuneto and Monsuru Bashiru scored both goals for MFM, while Amachi was on target for the Algerian team.
MFM created the first real chance of the game with Bashiru’s attempted lob in the fifth minute going inches wide.
The hosts came close again two minutes later through the lively Akuneto. The forward turned inside the box following a beautiful pass by Chukwuka Onuwa but his effort was saved by MC Alger’s goalkeeper Chaal. Play was however stopped in the 20th minute after Monsuru appeared to have slumped but he was deemed okay to continue with the game after he was attended to by a combined team of MFM and MC Alger medics. The home team made the breakthrough nine minutes before the break when Akuneto converted from the spot after he was tripped inside the box. MC Alger equalised in the 55th minute through Amachi who fired past the on rushing Egbe. Monsuru scored the winner five minutes from time with his surprise shot from outside the box sailing into the net.
At the Stade de l’Amite in Cotonou. Enyimba gave their qualification into the second round of the CAF Confederation Cup a huge boost following the 2-0 away win. Enyimba took the lead in the fourth minute following an own goal by Lawal Lanignan whose back header wrong-footed Energie FC keeper Wilson Damilola and bounced over the line.
In the ninth minute, Enyimba went 2-0 up through Austin Oladapo who fired into the bottom corner following a pass from Stanley Dimgba. Akwa United on the other hand fell to a 1-0 at the the Taieb Mhiri Stadium, Sfax. Muad Eisha scored the winning goal for the home team late in the game. The striker headed in a cross from the right to hand his team the slim advantage going into the reverse fixture. The hosts wasted a number of goal scoring chances in the game and fully deserved the win. The Promise Keepers will look to overturn the deficit and book a place in the second round when both teams clash in the return leg on March 18 at the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium, Uyo.