Seriki Adinoyi in Jos The Ambassador of the Peoples’ Republic of China to Nigeria, Dr. Zhou Pinjian has disclosed China’s dream to eradicate absolute poverty by 2020 and achieve modernisation in 2035. Pinjian made this known at the University of Jos, where the Chinese government awarded scholarship worth N4.7 million to 47 undergraduate students of the university. “In 2020, China will eradicate poverty by 100 per cent, 2035 it will achieve its modernization and the middle of the century build China to became a greater country, and we hope to realise the Chinese dream.” He said in 1978, China had 1.8 per cent of the world’s GDP, while its population was more than 20 per cent of the world, now it has 15 per cent of the world’s GDP with about the same population ratio. The ambassador added that he was overwhelmed by the hospitality accorded him and his entourage during the visit, stressing that there exist a bond as well as similarity between Nigeria and China as the two countries set up diplomatic relationship on February 10, 1971. He pointed out that the country believes that it is on the right path in the pursuit of its dream of rejuvenation as it values international relation, adding that a nation will prosper when its younger generation thrives. In his remarks, the Vice-Chancellor of UNIJOS, Prof. Sebastian Maimako commended the ambassador for his visit, saying that the 43- year-old institution with 12 faculties and centre has a population of over 30,000 students and multi campus. He said the award of scholarship to 47 students will deepen their relationship. He appealed to the ambassador to establish a Chinese resource centre to create awareness of both countries, saying that the university has two centres of bio research and called for collaborative research because the Chinese are good in that area. The VC also appealed to the ambassador to extend the scholarship to postgraduate students, saying that the university will also welcome Chinese students. He described China as a global giant in terms of economy and business. The ambassador had earlier visited Governor Simon Lalong and they discussed business relationship between the state and China.