Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti
In what appears like a breakdown of relationship, Ekiti State Governor, Ayo Fayose, and the Ewi of Ado-Ekiti, Oba Adeyemo Adejugbe, have exchanged verbal tirades over the latest demolition of houses in the state capital city. The present crisis arose as residents have been trooping to the palace of the monarch to register their displeasure over the way their properties were demolished without any prior notice and compensation. The governor is presently demolishing some structures at Erekesan market, Ijigbo and Okeyinmi to give way for the construction of dual carriage way and extension of Oja Oba market. The prominent traditional ruler in a video that had gone viral on social media had invited Fayose to his palace where he conveyed the feelings of his subject. In the video, the governor became livid and vowed to continue demolishing houses as part of his urban renewal policy. In the video, Ewi said: “The issue of urban renewal is sensitive, we had anticipated that this would happen and that was why we wrote a letter.
“We know that you are doing your work and we cannot prevent you from it. But my subjects have been coming to the palace to complain that their structures are being demolished without prior notice. “One of them complained that he went to work and before he returned, his house was demolished with all his belongings inside. That is an issue. “What we are saying is that let’s sit down together and work out things, so that those to be affected will know ahead of time. Imagine a situation in which somebody goes to work and before he
Returns, his house would be demolished.”
In his response, Fayose replied: “Kabiyesi, so your position that we should not demolish houses? Don’t say that at all! Please don’t bring that matter out again. “We need relative peace; can we remain in this condition forever? If this palace had remained the same condition you inherited it from your forefathers who had reigned before you, would we have had the opportunity to stay in this place? I just came here to honour you today, that is why I am here. “Those who are yet to be compensated will be compensated. I am already processing their compensations. We have done the enumeration, and whatever those affected are supposed to get, they will get it. “That I will not demolish houses, I cannot guarantee that; I also want to tell the Kabiyesi that I will not answer this kind of invitation again because I am busy working. I don’t want to be treated any less than the office of the governor that I represent. I don’t want to be so treated.”