Former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s Coalition for Nigeria Movement has strongly condemned the abduction of female students of the Government Science and Technical College, Dapchi, Yobe State by alleged Boko Haram insurgents. The coalition expressed surprise that this abduction could happen when the military was already celebrating the supposed total defeat and extinction of the Boko Haram sect. Aside the issue of insecurity, the xoalition stated that the solution to the issues that bedevil the country lie in the entrenchment of good leadership, governance, development and values across all levels of government and we shall not relent until this is achieved. The spokesperson for the coalition, Omoruyi O. Edoigiawerie, revealed in a report made available to THISDAY that: “This dastardly act is not only an attack on the country but also an attack on our collective future and the development of our educational institutions especially as it relates to girl-child education. As a country, we deserve to live in a country where every Nigerian, no matter who they are, where they live, their tribe or religion has the ability to live a secure, safe and healthy life.” The coalition described the attack as an affront on the country’s common humanity and the right to a future.
“Our youths are no longer the leaders of tomorrow but the drivers of their future and they deserve the freedom and opportunity to shape their future in an enabling environment “While we empathise with the parents of our dear daughters and we pray that they are rescued and reunited with their families, we call on the Federal Government of Nigeria to intensify its fight against terrorism and all forms of extremism and criminality. This cannot become a norm. “Our resolve to push for a Nigeria that typifies socio-economic development, social justice, equity, equality of opportunity, human security, human rights and most importantly good governance and the general well-being of all its citizens and inhabitants remains unshaken. “We realise that the solution to the issues that bedevil our Nation lie in the entrenchment of good leadership, governance, development and values across all levels of government and we shall not relent until this is achieved,” it added.