Vlisco has announced this year’s Vlisco Women’s Month Celebration in keeping with its annual tradition of celebrating women across Africa. Vlisco will honour all inspiring women in Nigeria during the entire month of March, starting with the announcement of the 2018 Vlisco Ambassador for Nigeria at a press briefing held today at the Vlisco Boutique in the Ikeja City Mall. Dr. Yolanda George-David was unveiled as the Vlisco Ambassador, taking over from Mrs Dotun Akande, founder of Patrick Speech and Language Center. George-David is a wife and mother, a Neurosurgeon with her primary residency in Obstetrics and Gynecology as well as a Clinical & Relational Psychologist. She is also an Academic, a multiple award-winning international speaker, a business woman, media personality, a human rights activist and the founder of Aunt Landa’s Bethel Foundation. Driven by her passion to change her world one person at a time, she founded Aunt Landa‟s Bethel Foundation where over 25,000 sexually abused teenagers have been counseled, rehabilitated and most of them taught essential vocational and life skills. Aunt Landa works with a team of passionate volunteers and together they help redefine and add purpose to the lives of thousands of registered and non-registered members with different needs in the foundations over 200 centers and from various walks of life. In introducing the new Ambassador, Business Strategy Manager, Vlisco Nigeria, Yvonne Chioke, elaborated on her extensive humanitarian work, particularly with regards to the empowerment of women and the girl-child. She said: “We are proud to work with an Ambassador who shares the same values as Vlisco in empowering women across the country. Dr. Yolanda’s passion and dedication to the cause of giving a new lease of life to some of the most traumatised and marginalised people in our society are truly commendable. We look forward to supporting her in making a difference in more lives.” During the month of March, George-David will be sharing her inspirational story via multiple platforms including the media and via various speaking engagements. Throughout the year, she will be traveling across the country to engage with various women’s groups on mentorship and educating them on the plight of women, girls and boys that have been sexually abused, in order to create even more awareness.