Gboyega Akinsanmi
Former President Goodluck Jonathan’s media assistant, Mr. Reno Omokri, on Tuesday asked the General Overseer of Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, to call Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo to order for accusing Jonathan of sharing N150 billion two weeks to the 2015 elections. Omokri made the call in a statement he issued yesterday, debunking a claim by the vice president that while it spent a paltry N14 billion on agriculture in 2014, N15 billion on transportation, and only N153 billion on infrastructure in three years, it shared N150 billion two weeks to the 2015 elections. He said if President Buhari “will not intervene and rein in his vice president by calling him to order, I respectfully call on Pastor Adeboye to step in and call Osinbajo to order.”
He urged Adeboye to remember a biblical admonition in Revelations 21:8, which states that all liars “shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone.” Contrary to Osinbajo’s claim, Omokri noted that Jonathan did not share N150 billion two weeks to the 2015 election, thereby challenging him to come out with his proofs.
He said: “If Osinbajo has proof that Jonathan did so, then we challenge him to publish his proof. He is a professor of law and ought to know that he who alleges must prove. “Again, it is a lie from the pit of hell that the Jonathan administration spent only N14 billion on agriculture and N153 billion on infrastructure in three years as alleged by the fallacious Osinbajo.
“The Jonathan administration budgeted and spent over $10 billion on infrastructure in five years between May 6, 2010 and May 29, 2015,” Omokri noted. He explained that the single most expensive and valuable project built in Nigeria in the last 20 years “is the $1.8 billion Abuja-Kaduna 187 kilometres super-fast railway that enables Nigerians work in Abuja and live in Kaduna.
“This project was built and completed by the Jonathan administration. Is the vice president aware of this? Also, Jonathan revived railways in five of the six geo-political zones and restored direct rail services from Lagos to Kano, Port Harcourt to Maiduguri and Makurdi to Gombe,” Jonathan’s aide explained. Despite what he described as Jonathan’s landmark achievement, he lamented that both Buhari and Osinbajo “keep accusing the Jonathan administration of being corrupt and claim that they run an anti-corruption government.
“If this is true, how come Nigeria made her best ever improvement in Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index under former President Jonathan government in 2014 when we moved eight places forward from 144 to 136? “Why have we made our worst ever retrogression in the Corruption Perception Index under President Buhari, moving 12 places backward from 136 to 148 in 2018?”
He, therefore, observed that the vice president “continues to make these discredited comments because he is a man promoted above his competency.”
Omokri said it is sad that the vice president has again surrendered his lips to Satan to be used to spread slander and lies. Nigerians may recall that lying is the most consistent achievement of Osinbajo’s almost three years as vice president.” He pointed out another unfounded claim the vice president made on October 20, 2017 in Anambra State where he disclosed that the present administration had paid $2 billion for the second Niger Bridge.
Jonathan’s media aide said: “I personally exposed that lie and forced the Presidency to issue a clarification. The money released was N2 billion. It came from the Sovereign Wealth Fund set up by the Jonathan administration which the APC resisted and challenged in court.” He recalled that in February 2016, the vice president again lied when he claimed that both the Jonathan and Yar’adua governments did not build a single road. Omokri said the fact was easily disproved when even members of this administration, including Buhari, began inauguration of projects roads built by the Jonathan administration.
According to him, some of the roads either built or rebuilt by the Jonathan administration include the Benin-Ore portions of the Benin-Lagos road, the Vom-Manchok road, the Kano-Zaria road bridge (named after late Emir Ado Bayero) and many more.