Abimbola Akosile The Edo State Government through its job creation initiative, EdoJobs, has launched a skills development programme to prepare unemployed youths in the state for employment opportunities and as employers of labour. Addressing journalists during a recent press conference in Benin to announce the launch of the programme, Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Skill Acquisition and Job Creation, Ukinebo Dare, said “Through the skills development programme, the Godwin Obaseki-led administration has been attracting investors that have need for highly skilled manpower to the state.” She explained that the state government is partnering organisations that are specialised in Information and Communication Technology (ICT), mobile phone and laptop repairs, automobile mechanics among others, to train youths across the three senatorial districts in the state. The training, she said, “is designed in such a way that some programmes have stipend packages, start-up packs while others have business support packages for trainees. The programme will also address the needs of the participating business partners and individuals.” Dare added that youths would be trained in various skills to meet the increasing demands for highly skilled workforce in the state. “The objective of the programme is to enable the state government prepare youths as entrepreneurs and employers of labour in line with the vision of the Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, to create 200,000 jobs.” She said the programme is open to youths who are indigenes and those who reside in the state, adding, “The programme will enhance the employability of youths and enable them maximise their potential. It will prepare the youths for different job opportunities. Those trained will be matched with employers who have vacancies in the state through the Edojobs portal. “The programme will assist the state government supply employers skilled labour force as the EdoJobs initiative has grown from a job matching to job creation platform.” One of the partners of the programme, Slot Academy, represented by Collins Uwadiae, said, “Slot Academy is partnering with Edo State Government to complement the strides of Governor Obaseki in creating jobs for youths. The Academy will train the youths at zero cost to prepare youths as entrepreneurs. Chief Inspector of IFEST Foundation, another partner, Engr. Anthony Okogue, said: “IFEST Foundation is partnering with EdoJobs to render technical and vocational training in motor and vehicle mechanic. We are partnering with Edojobs to train Edo youths in modern motor and vehicle mechanics.” Also in attendance were beneficiaries of skills development programmes organised by EdoJobs.
Isioma Deborah said the programme has helped her on branding and packaging which she is applying in her business. “Before the training, I was just doing my normal business but with the help of EdoJobs’ partners I have been able to put my business on several social media platforms and my customers are increasing. I really appreciate them,” she said. Similarly, Loveth Osagie, who is undergoing training in fashion design, said the programme has helped her discover her innate abilities. Meanwhile, to prepare graduates with skills to contribute to the state’s economy and become self-reliant, EdoJobs has partnered Oxfam in the Career Kickstart programme and Leanna Garage to train over 155 youths in Edo State on employability skills and automobile engineering. The training is among a series of ongoing capacity building programmes organised by the state government’s Skills Development Programme expected to train graduates and empower them to tap from the 200,000 jobs promised during the governor’s first term in office. Oxfam is training 150 persons in the Career Kickstart programme, while Leanna Garage is training five others. The over 155 youths, whose training began on March 13, were drawn from the Edojobs portal, which holds the database of unemployed youths resident in the state and forms a pool from where employers in the state make recruitments.
Speaking at an event organised to launch the Edojobs 2.0, the second phase of the project, Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Skill Acquisition and Job Creation, Ukinebo Dare, said the state government is partnering experts to equip graduates with skills that will help them tap from the vast opportunities opening up in the state as more investments trickle in. Some of the other participating firms in the scheme include SLOT Academy, CareerKickstart programme, Law Autos and Levantar Soap Factory. Also, Edo State Government has urged appointees and top government officials to mobilise their constituents in local government areas to register on the EdoJobs portal, a platform set up to coordinate skills development and job creation initiatives and tackle unemployment in the state. In a statement by Dare, the state government said opportunities advertised on the portal cut across all senatorial districts in the state and there are relevant vacancies for various levels of qualifications and ages. The governor’s aide said the EdoJobs 2.0 is a relaunch of the project, which is the skills development programme set up to meet Governor Obaseki’s desire for job creation and employability of residents in Edo State. The state government reopened the EdoJobs portal on March 2, calling on residents in the state to register for job and training opportunities.