First City Monument Bank (FCMB) is set to further empower, reward and enhance the experience of its customers through another reward scheme tagged: ‘FCMB Millionaire Promo Season 5’. The bank explained that its decision to introduce another promo was as a result of the impact previous editions of the promo made in the lives of about 20,000 of its customers who won various gifts, including cars, cash (ranging from N1 million to N5million), refrigerators, phones, decoders, television and power generating sets. In a statement, FCMB explained that the new promo would run from March to October 2018. It is targeted at all segments of the society, especially existing and potential savings account customers of the Bank. This however, excludes salary and domiciliary account holders. It further stated that the promo was designed to provide extra empowerment value to customers of the bank, reward them for their loyalty over the years, while also encouraging financial inclusion, the establishment of small scale businesses as well as the development of a savings culture. During the promo, various prizes would be won by qualified customers. While four lucky customers of the bank would each win the star prize of N2 million at the grand finale of the promo scheduled for November this year, 12 others will be rewarded with N1 million each at the regional draws that will respectively hold in May, July and September. Other prizes to be won include 160 units of LED television sets, 160 power generating sets, 640 smart phones, 320 tablets and 800 decoders among other consolatory takeaways. Speaking about the new campaign, FCMB’s Executive Director, Retail Banking, Mr. Olu Akanmu, said: “FCMB promo is very credible. The draws in the coming season will still take place in all the zones of the Bank across Nigeria. “Winners will be emerging from every region, spread across cities, towns and neighbourhoods all over the country. “The strength of the FCMB franchise is very remarkable across Nigeria. This accounts for the millions of customers who are doing their savings and banking transactions with us, daily using all our channels. We will continue to reward our customers for their patronage. They are the reason why we are in business and we are poised to continue to serve them with excellent customer experience.’’