Seriki Adinoyi in Jos As the people of Plateau state await the visit of President Muhammadu Buhari to the state on March 8, the President is expected to have a busy day unveiling diverse projects spread across the 17 local government areas of the state. Disclosing this at a press conference weekend, state Commissioner for Information and Communication, Yakubu Dati said during the visit, projects executed by Governor Simon Lalong across the state would be launched by the President, in addition to a town-hall meeting with the All Progressives Congress (APC) stakeholders in the state. The projects slated for launch, according to Dati are State and Federal Low-cost Housing Estates at Dong, the Secretariat Junction flyover, Revenue House, and numerous network of roads among many others. Dati added that his appointment as commissioner was to consolidate on his predecessors’ achievements in projecting the Governor’s achievements spread across the three Senatorial Districts and in maintaining the existing peace through the cooperation of media organisations. He disclosed government’s plan to disseminate vital information on Lalong’s achievements in his over two years of reign as the Governor of the state, so as to promote unity in diversity, as well as build confidence among the people of the sta‎te. He said: “A committee has been set up for the visit, it’s going to be a one day visit. Our President is expected to commission some road projects, like the Mararaban Jama -British American road, the Kalong road in Shendam, the Low-cost Rantya, Tudun Wada road, the Panyam fish farm among other projects in the state. “Our governor, Simon Lalong is doing his best to develop Plateau and so far many road projects he inherited have been completed, more projects are ongoing in almost all the local government councils in the state.” He also said the Lalong-led administration has brought sanity and direction to governance in the state. “Our governor Simon Lalong is doing well in prompt payment of workers’ salaries and pension of our retirees; now civil servants do their jobs well because they are well motivated. So much has been achieved by the Lalong-led administration, which has become a reference point for peace and stability. “Necessary security has been put in place to receive our President. We call on the people of the state to continue to support the administration at all times”, he added.