By Nume Ekeghe The Chief Executive Officer, Fine and Country West Africa, Mrs. Udo Okonjo has urged women to take advantage of investment opportunities in the real estate. She made this call at an executive breakfast meeting where she engaged a few highflying career women and some driven millennials. Okonjo who has successfully been at the forefront of encouraging women towards investing in real estate through the Finer wealth series which is in its fourth year, has also introduced ‘Finer Wealth Investment Club’ which aims at giving accurate real estate investment advice and wealth management through a partnership with FBN quest. Okonjo said: “Fine and Country is going to be 10 years and over those years almost 50 percent of our clients have been women. “And it is interesting the way women invest, so even when they have money, there is always this sense of reluctance, discomfort and confidence. But somehow we found out that if they have the right information, it made them more confident and therefore they were able to do much more.” She further spoke extensively on rewards of investing in real estate. Furthermore, more women present attested to the benefits in investing in real estate and shared their experiences. She also gave an insightful description of the various investing plans such as land, off plans and others. Furthermore said said: “We believe that real estate is a strong path towards creating wealth. For us, the finer wealth at the higher level is actually about purposeful women who understand the power of wealth and want to use real estate as one of those pathways to creating or fast-tracking their wealth creation.” Also speaking on the wealth club, she said: “Finer wealth is an investment club is a real estate community and it is also a resource platform where we provide women with the information and accurate insights to enable them make better decision.  This initiative is also to encourage women to save and invest. “The finer wealth community is a community of women interested in individually creating wealth and impact through Real Estate Investment and a platform to encourage women who are interested in jointly pooling resources to invest in real estate for better yields.” “This also gives women access to insight and opportunities to aid intelligent real estate decision making,” she added. 