Seriki Adinoyi in Jos
The Chairperson of the Women Wing of the Christian Association of Nigeria (WOWICAN) in 19 Northern States and Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Mrs. Leah Solomon, has called on all the Muslim mothers across the country to come together in unity and also cooperate with the wing in order to launch an expanded campaign against the abduction of school girls by insurgents across the country. She spoke yesterday during a protest march at the 2nd 19 Northern States and FCT annual conference of WOWICAN in ECWA Jos DCC women fellowship conference camp, Jos East, Plateau State. Mrs. Solomon said they would no longer fold their arms over the uncanny action of insurgents going to female secondary schools in order to abduct hundreds of girls, irrespective of religious, and convert them to sex slaves or use them for any kind of gain. She said, “These abductions are gradually becoming a trend in this country and it has to stop. First, it was hundreds of Chibok school girls in Borno State in 2014, and now it is over a hundred Dapchi school girls in Yobe State. It doesn’t matter if the girls are either Christians or Muslims, what is paramount is that the action of these insurgents going to schools to abduct girls in order to spite the government or advance their course, or for whatever reason, must be halted forthwith. And we demand the unconditional release of all the girls already abducted. “As mothers, it is agonising to know that your daughter which you sent to school is abducted by one terrorist and taken to an unknown destination, and then forcefully used as sex slave or for any other purpose. This is what no mother would want to imagine, talk more of experience. That is why WOWICAN in the 19 Northern States and FCT has decided to launch a robust campaign against such action, beginning from this conference. And we call on all mothers in the country to join hands with us on this. We equally call on Muslim mothers to collaborate with us in order to give our campaign a boost because this is beyond religion. Besides, no religion condones the action of these terrorists, even as no religion is spared of their attacks/actions. She also called on the federal government to do more to halt the killings in the country in the name of farmers-herdsmen clash, saying that no amount of achievement by the Buhari administration can be meaningful amidst killings of innocent people daily, especially in the Northern part of the country. According to Solomon, some criminal elements have taken the advantage of the farmers-herdsmen clashes to perpetuate evil agenda on many communities in the Northern part of the country, while the government and security agents appeared helpless in tackling the situation and properly nipping it in the bud.