Members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the western senatorial district of Kogi State have expressed utter disappointment at the fast rate in which the state has come under the siege of herdsmen, internal violence and perennial security breaches; all of which have earned the state wide and negative publicity under the administration of Governor Yahaya Bello. Rising from its rotated zonal meeting, held at the residence of Major General David Jemibewon (rtd), at Iyah Gbede, the meeting in a communique issued by Mr. Taiwo Kola-Ojo, Kogi west zonal Chairman of PDP, condemned the rising destruction of lives and property in the state, making the state a reflection of the Hobbesian state of nature where life has become ‘nasty, brutish and short’. The communique commended the resilience and the perseverance of the people of the state, and urged them to collaborate with the PDP, in its desire to restore the peace, dignity and progress of Kogi State. Furthermore, the meeting commended members of the National Assembly who worked across party lines to lead the voice of the people in resisting the ignoble decision of Bello to fritter away the hard earned assets of the state, in a way reminiscent of the prodigal son. Members of the party called for continuous vigilance against other injurious policies that the governor might be hatching or intending to execute. The meeting also noted with concern the unfriendly and intolerant political atmosphere in the state, where publicity materials belonging to other parties in the state are constantly destroyed by the agents of the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration in the state. The meeting enjoined members of the PDP to remain steadfast, stressing that the poor performance of the Bello administration has recommended the PDP very strongly as the only viable alternative to the inept and failed APC government in the state The highly interactive meeting was attended by party leaders, party executive members, past and present elected and appointed members and various stakeholders and members of the party. Some of the leaders that attended the meeting include, Jemibewon, Chief Samuel Akande, former Deputy Governor, Yomi Awoniyi, former Deputy Governor, Prince Olusola Akanmode, former Deputy Chief of Staff in the Presidency, Hon Clarence Olafemi, former acting governor, Hon Hassan Salau, former state Chairman of PDP, Taiwo Kola-Ojo, Kogi West senatorial district Chairman, Mr. Sam Abenemi, state Deputy Chairman of PDP, Hon Abiodun Ojo, former House of Representatives member, Hon TJ Faniyi, former House of Representatives member, Alhaji Musa Ahmadu, former House of Representatives member, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, National Publicity Secretary of PDP, Olori Margaret Orebiyi , state woman leader and Hon Alfred Bello, state Treasurer of PDP.