Few hours after the Edo State government formally expressed its alignment with the royal orders and pronouncements of the  Benin Monarch, His Royal Majesty, Omo N’ Oba N’Edo, Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare II, market women in the state have hailed the courage of the Oba, pledging to abide by the orders. Leader of Edo Market Women, Madam Blackie Ogiamien, described the orders of the Benin Monarch as “progressive,” noting that it gives the needed support to Edo State Government’s campaign against human trafficking and illegal migration. She added that with the blessing of the royal father, “the people and government of the day are now in synch and it will only take one who is foolhardy to continue in the despicable practices that have aided and abetted human trafficking for years.” She argued that the charge by the royal father “will bring succour to market women and mothers in general, in the state, most of whom have been yearning for an intervention in the inhuman trade that have claimed the lives of many Edo youths.” Madam Ogiamien said: “We are comforted by the orders of our father, Oba Ewuare II. Edo people know and appreciate the weight of the curses and orders of the King and we are happy about the orders. “A lot of mothers sold houses and gave the proceeds to people who lied that they can take their children abroad through legal means and give them decent jobs on arrival. But the children were abandoned in jungles of death in Libya and in the Sahara Desert, while others died in Mediterranean Sea while being ferried in rickety boats.” She added that families in Benin and elsewhere in the state are happy and comforted by the royal pronouncements and assured that market women will abide by the orders. At a well-attended meeting of chiefs, dukes, native doctors, priests and priestesses with the Oba of Benin, His Royal Majesty, Omo N’ Oba N’ Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare II, on Friday, the Benin Monarch placed curses on the people perpetrating human trafficking in the state. The Benin Monarch also extended the curses to killer gangs and cult groups, armed robbers who have been unleashing terror on innocent people in the state and causing mayhem in the name of cult activities. He nullified all oaths administered by human traffickers through their collaborators; native doctors and priests, on victims of the inhuman trade, with a directive that victims of human trafficking are now free from any spiritual oath. He directed the trafficked persons to speak out and name their slave masters and mistresses and seek help if need be.  Since last Friday’s meeting at the Oba’s palace, the outcomes of the meeting have dominated discussions among Edo people, who have expressed hope that the curses will check human traffickers, home and abroad, who have brought the pride and dignity of the Edo people to disrepute, through their criminal activities. 