Femi Ogbonnikan in Abeokuta
Two pupils of a primary school in Ogun State were on Monday sent to their early graves when a man with insanity attacked and hacked them to death. The gory incident took place at Saint John’s Anglican Primary School, Agodo, in Ogun Waterside Local Government Area of Ogun State. It was gathered that the mentally insane man, identified as Lekan Adebisi, was said to have stormed the school at about 11:15a.m. during the lunch break.
The two victims who were among other colleagues, were said to be playing on the football pitch in the school when the said Lekan suddenly emerged from nowhere in a nearby bush and attacked them. At the end of the ensuing melee, it was learnt that two male pupils who were said to be in the kindergarten class – Mubarak Kalesowo and Sunday Obituyi – were hacked down as a result of the deep machete cuts inflicted on them, a development which left them in a pool of their blood. Eyewitness accounts said immediately the mentally insane man committed the crime, he took to his heels.
The two deceased pupils, it was learnt, were aged four years old. The sources close to the school hinted that the school had perimeter fence but lacked gates to secure it.
Following the sad incident, it was said, parents and guardians thronged the affected school to withdraw their children and wards while security agents have swung into action to unravel the mystery behind ugly incident. The state Police Command Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the incident.
Oyeyemi said the command had swung into action as detectives are on the trail of the suspect with a view to arresting him. He added that the detectives led by the Area Commander and Divisional Police Officer, Abigi had already been deployed in the area to fish out the suspect. “The incident happened at 11:15a.m. during lunch break yesterday. They (pupils) were on the field playing before the suspect emerged from the bush and hacked the two of them to death and immediately he did it, he ran away. “Those who know him said he is a mentally insane and also an indigene of that place. But we are not relying on that. We are on his trail, we want to get him arrested. “It is only the medical expert that would determine whether he is mentally insane or not. Our ultimate aim is to get him arrested. As I am talking to you now, the Area Commander and the DPO Abigi are at the scene. We have set machinery in motion to get him arrested,” said Oyeyemi