Ernest Chinwo in Port Harcourt In a move to develop a new water supply chain for Port Harcourt and Obio/Akpor Local Government Areas, Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has inaugurated the Port Harcourt Water Corporation. The governor also inaugurated the executive committee of National Festival of Arts and Culture (NAFEST) to organise the 2018 edition of the cultural festival to be hosted by the state. Inaugurating the Port Harcourt Water Corporation yesterday at the Government House, Port Harcourt, Wike charged the members to ensure that water flows to homes in the state capital. “I want to advise the Port Harcourt Water Corporation to work in unity to ensure that water flows to homes for the first time in decades. “Members of the Port Harcourt Water Corporation have the opportunity of writing their names in gold by delivering on this all important assignment,” Wike said. The governor explained that due to the importance of the water project, a commissioner was removed and assigned to work as the acting Managing Director of Port Harcourt Water Corporation because of his experience and professional competence. He said the new Port Harcourt water project would be executed via a loan applied for by the immediate past administration, which was approved by former President Goodluck Jonathan. He said the administration resolved to continue with the project because it is key to the development of the state capital, noting that stakeholders also stressed the relevance of executing the project. “It will be historic that in our own time, that we deliver potable water to Port Harcourt and Obio/Akpor Local Government Areas”, he said. On the NAFEST Committee, Wike advised that the NAFEST 2018 to be held in Port Harcourt, should be a world-class showcase of the cultural beauty of the country. Responding on behalf of the Port Harcourt Water Corporation, Chairman of the Corporation, Mrs. Doris Daba Cowan, said the new corporation would work hard to replace the 50-year old water structure in the state capital.
He assured the governor that members of the corporation understand the enormity of the task before them, emphasising that they would deliver on their mandate. The Chairman of the Executive Committee on NAFEST, Mrs. Tonye Oniyide, said NAFEST 2018 would be the best in the history of the cultural fiesta.