By Senator Iroegbu in Abuja The senator representing Kaduna Central senatorial district,  Shehu Sani, has said President Muhammadu Buhari is the only rallying point for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Sani also said the crisis rocking APC has grown from a cat to tiger, adding that without the president, who he described as the only ‘glue’ holding the party together, the ruling party would have collapsed. The senator made these remarks while speaking to journalists at the weekend shortly after a closed door meeting with Mr. Segun Oni-led fact-finding panel on the Kaduna APC crisis. The Senate Committee Chairman on Loan and Foreign Debts, threatened that if the criss is not resolved,  he has plan A, B and C. He also noted that the appointment of Senator Bola Tinubu to chair the reconciliation committee has given many contending forces within the party the hope and confidence that the issues would be addressed. He said: “Tinubu, is a man who is expected to bring peace Somalia, to bring peace to Syria, to bring peace to Afghanistan and also to reconcile Palestine and Israel, so, we pray for him to be able to achieve all these but we can say this clearly that we allowed APC’s problems to move from being a cat to being a tiger. And it now grew to such a level that threatens to consume everyone. “I still see President Buhari as the glue of APC. Buhari is the glue of APC. These three words you are seeing, A, P and C, Buhari is the glue. If we don’t have Buhari in the APC, suddenly everyone will find way to his home. So as he remains the the glue, he must also be up and doing in addressing these crises. And part of the problems we are having here is the philosophy of being for everybody and for nobody, it led the party to nowhere. “So as far as I am concerned, I believe that there is a future for this party but if only everyone of us is treated with equity, justice and fairness. We must avoid the symptoms of crisis that destroyed the PDP. It must not come over here. These problems can be resolved but as I said earlier, it has been allowed to move from being a cat to the tiger.” Speaking on his plans if the crisis continue,  Sani  said: “You see, we say all politics is local. As far as I am concerned, if the crisis in Kaduna lingers and it defies all sorts of peaceful moves, certainly people will take the next step. And as far as I am concerned, everyone has plan B. “As for me, I have plan B, Plan C and Plan D. So, If anybody feels he can enslave me, if anybody thinks he can dictate to me, if anyone feels that this party belongs to him and doesn’t belong to me and I am not needed in the party, there is no way I can continue to remain in the party afterall it is a free world.”