By Benjamin Nworie in Abakaliki The National Coordinator of Ebonyi Unity Forum, Hon. Francis Agwu has emphasised that it was only the reelection of Governor David Umahi that would guarantee power shift to Abakaliki bloc which comprises of Ebonyi Central and North senatorial zones in 2023. Briefing newsmen in Abakaliki, the National Coordinator said that only the re-election of the incumbent Governor that would encourage equity and power rotation among the senatorial zones of the State. He warned all aspirants to obey rule of law by ensuring peaceful electioneering activities as the group would not condone any acts capable of causing mayhem in the state. Agwu, who described the plethora of people publicly endorsing the Governor for another term was a sign that he had performed well so far in his first tenure. He commended all local government areas, clans and communities for coming out to endorse the Governor saying that he holds similar view that the Governor had surpassed expectations of Ebonyi people and had nothing other than lend his Voice to the call for his re-election. Obviously concerned by the high rate of suspicion that electing a fresh candidate may shortchange the bloc, the group noted that no amount of agreement and assurance would make a new candidate from the South zone relinquish power after his one term. THISDAY gathered that there was already sensitisation and awareness by the people of Abakaliki bloc not to support another candidate other than governor Umahi, so as not to endanger their chances of secession. Already, political gladiators have started scheming on which zone that will succeed Umahi after his second term, with major interest on Ezza nation and Izzi. The National Coordinator said: “It is only in the re-election of Governor David Umahi that there’s hope that power will shift to Abakaliki bloc. Nobody should deceive is with one-term agenda. It has not worked. Only the re-election of the incumbent governor will encourage equity and ensures power rotation among North, central and South zones is not thwarted. “Equity demands that Ebonyi South should be allowed to do a second term as the North and Central Senatorial zones did. Moreso, if we should elect another person from Ebonyi South, such a person will certainly seek re-election at the completion of his first term thereby, truncating power rotation precedence”. He solicited Ebonyians to support Ebonyi Unity Forum describing it as a mass movement all geared towards ensuring that Governor Umahi is re-elected come 2019.