Peter Uzoho The President and Chairman of Alpine Services Limited, Malam Muhammed Hayatudeen, has called for the formulation and implementation of Vision 2050, a three cycles economic development plan to enable the country to become one of the top 10 big economies in the world. He said Nigeria needs a national vision that places the prosperity and welfare of the citizens and the country at the centre, stressing that such vision would direct where the country wants to be. Hayatudeen made the call Wednesday in Kaduna during his presentation at the ongoing Kaduna International Trade Fair. He said for Nigeria to be competitive in the global market place, an economic construction plan also has to be developed to be a vehicle for the implementation of the national vision. “A vision is a mental state of being that directs where you want to be in 20 years’ time. And therefore given the very low base from which we are starting, I recommend that we set our sight on vision 2050, a 30 year period from now, by which time we should have become one of the top 10 economies in the world”, Hayatudeen said. He added: “Such an endeavour requires mass mobilisation of the people and this is best achieved if both segment of the people are represented in the vision development committee. “The committee will in turn establish a variety of outreach programme and delivery channels for getting inputs and buying from the public,” he noted. According to him, the first development plan should focus on building a true nation that will eradicate poverty and ensure a balanced development of all parts of the country and economic sectors, and
should be between 2019 and 2030, a 12 year cycle. He said the second development plan would be from 2030 to 2040 and should seek to make Nigeria a highly industrialised and export-driven economy by the end of that period. “The third plan beginning in 2040 should focus on positioning the country to become a highly innovative economy that is resilient and globally competitive with the services sector accounting for a larger share of the GDP.”