Sterling Bank Plc has expressed its desire to partner the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT) in a bid to positively influence development in Nigeria’s transportation sector. Group Head, Strategy & Innovation, Sterling Bank Plc, Mr. Shina Atilola, stated this while addressing executive members of the Institute who paid a courtesy visit to the corporate headquarters of the lender at Marina, Lagos recently. He said the transportation sector is a major contributor to the economy and that “Without effective transportation, businesses will not attain their true potential because they will be denied the opportunity to connect with supply chain partners and customers. We recognise the important role the transportation sector has played and is playing in the growth and development of the Nigerian economy, hence our engagement with CILT.” “Our partnership with the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport will ensure we provide more effective support to the profession and industry in line with our pioneering works in the sector,” Mr. Atilola said.
He added that the partnership also provides the bank with solid knowledge, which will ensure technology transfer, innovation and sustained impact for the overall benefit of Nigerians and the economy. “This partnership will ensure that we understand the language of the transportation sector, making it easy to develop financial products that will suit its needs,” Mr. Shina Atilola explained. On her part, Chief Human Resource Officer, Sterling Bank, Mrs. Temi Dalley, commended the Institute for its robust curriculum which advances the development and improvement of the local logistics, transport and supply chain sub-sectors. She said the bank is open to exploiting the curriculum of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport to further strengthen the capacity of Sterling Bank’s employees. Earlier in his remarks, acting National Executive Director of the institute, Mr. Paul Ndibe, said the organisation started in 1919 in the United Kingdom while it became operational in Nigeria in 1958 and has been contributing in various ways to the development of logistics and transportation sector of the Nigerian economy. The institute organises an annual conference, workshops and capacity development programmes for the transportation sector. It also conducts exams for members to qualify to practice in the country. Ndibe said the global institute is made up of 34 countries, which includes 12 English speaking African countries and that the institute has accredited eight Nigerian universities to run courses for undergraduates who want to pursue a career in transportation and logistics in the country. He said the visit was to intimate the bank about the activities of the institute, the forthcoming African Forum and how Sterling Bank could leverage the institute’s network to further its growth. The visit was also to enable executive members of the institute to discuss how Sterling Bank could collaborate with it in the execution of the forum and for it to be branded as a friendly bank for the logistics and transport services providers. The African Forum with the theme “Building Capacity for Efficient Logistics & Transport Services in Africa” is scheduled to hold March 14th – 16th, 2018.