For those who are looking at developing innovative human capital, creating a culture of excellence, achieving sustainable first-class performance and securing a competitive edge, These Executive Minds (TEXEM) UK is set to help them accomplish all these and more. These goals, according to a release issued by the CEO of TEXEM, Dr. Alim Abubakre, are to be unveiled and shared at a coming event under the topic: ‘Strategies for Growth, Profitability and Excellent Service Delivery’, which will be held on Wednesday, March 14 and Thursday, March 15, at Eko Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos. Cost of participation is £1500 (N750,000 payment accepted in Naira), it added. Abubakre, in the release, enjoined attendees to “Join world-renowned Prof Christian Stadler of Warwick Business School who will be sharing insights on how you could stimulate organisational success, unlock sustainable corporate growth and achieve optimal value creation. His book ‘Enduring Success, What we can learn from the History of Outstanding Corporations’ was listed as one of the world’s top 20 Management titles. “Clients include: Shell, BP, Accenture, HSBC, AXA, IBM, and Standard Bank Group. His work has been published in Forbes, Harvard Business Review and CNN, BBC, Al Jazeera, New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Financial Times, and Bloomberg Business Week.” “Watching Germany wipe out Brazil at the last Word Cup made one thing clear: well organised teams win even against those with the most celebrated stars. In business you are in a similar situation. You might be lucky once, but sustainable competitive advantage can only be developed if you ‘get organised’ – which means you develop a strategy” the release added. Strategy Professor at the University of Warwick and author of award winning ‘Enduring Success’, Christian Stadler, is expected to show participants how to beat expectations today and have an eye on the future, how they can fight bureaucracy and accelerate growth, and how develop principles that helped both big players and small start-ups to outsmart competitors. Among other insights, attendees will learn how to “Master innovation and execution: Glaxo turned a me-too-product into the world’s best-selling drug; Fight bureaucracy – keep things simple: cool things happened when Jack Abraham ignored eBay procedures; Passion for the frontline: Frank Wang Tao, founder of world leading drone manufacturer DJI was obsessed by helicopters since elementary school. He still is; and to be a great boss – but not a charismatic one: Daimler was set for greatness but never made it thanks to Edzard Reuter”.