By George Okoh in Makurdi The Chairman, Advisory Council of the Ahmadu Bello Foundation, retired Justice Mamman Nasjr has assured that northern leaders will find a solution that will solve the perennial clashes between herdsmen and communities in Benue. He said the insecurity in Benue was created by some unknown forces who were not from the North even as he assured  that they would do their best to restore peace and unity in the State and the North He stated this yesterday at Government House, Makurdi when he came. with the delegation of the foundation to pay  a condolence visit on Governor Samuel Ortom on the death of over 73 persons murdered  by suspected Fulani herdsmen. He said what happened  in Benue was very sad and should concern people of the north but added that the solution to the problem still lie with northern elders. Also speaking Former Governor of Niger State and Chairman,  Board of Trustee of the Foundation Aliyu Babangida stressed the need for honesty and objectivity in recognizing the pains and suffering the Benue people are going through I ,  adding that the perpetrators must be arrested. He also, emphasised the need to imbibe the principle and sense of Justice that once kept the North as one region. “There is need for unity not only in the country but in the North. Whatever will affect the unity of North should be nipped in the bud. Intelligence gathering should lie with the common people. Traditional rulers should be empowered to do more intelligence job to help the governors”, Babangida said. He said state governors lack control over security apparatus in their domain and  were answerable to Federal authorities. According to him, as governor, he established cordial relationship with the security agencies in payment of their allowances as well as purchase of vehicles. On the security situation in the State, Aliyu stressed the need for honesty and objectivity in recognising the pains and suffering the Benue people were going through,  adding that the perpetrators must be arrested. Also, Former.  Governor of Benue State Gabriel Suswam who doubles as vice chairman of the Foundation lamented that what was happening to Benue people totally negates the principle and spirit of togetherness of the North.  He said the Federal government must be held accountable  for the failure to protect the people of the state.  In response,  Governor Samuel Ortom lauded the contribution of late Sir Ahmadu Bello in ensuring peace and unity of the North and country.  He urged the Foundation to evoke the spirit of the late Sarduna of Sokoto and first prime minister of Northern Nigeria in the restoration of peace and unity in our communities.