• Kogi govt trying to frame me, says senator
Yekini Jimoh in Lokoja
The Kogi State Police Command on Monday paraded two suspected notorious political thugs allegedly working for the lawmaker representing the Kogi West senatorial district, Senator Dino Melaye with two AK 47 and five pump action rifles. The two suspects paraded at the state police headquarters by the Force Public Relations Officer Mr. Jimoh Moshood, in Lokoja are Kabiru Saidu (aka Osama) and Nuhu Salisu (aka small).
According to him, they were arrested after a gun battle with the police team which lasted for several hours on January 19, 2018. Moshood told journalists that the two suspects, upon interrogation, confessed that they were working as a political thug for Senator Melaye.
The police spokesman said: “The gang leader, Kabiru Saidu, was introduced to Melaye, and they met at airport road in Abuja inside Melaye’s car in December 2017. “The suspects further confessed that the senator told him that they should start working for him as his political thugs and they should recruit and train other thugs to work for him in preparation towards 2019 general election; challenge his political opponents and disorganise Kogi State.” Moshood alleged that the suspects confessed to the police that Melaye handed over a bag containing one AK 47 rifle, two pump action guns and the sum of N430,000 to share with his boy. He further stated that consequent upon the indictment and criminal confession of the principal suspect, Saidu, the police wrote to the Senate requesting Melaye to report to the Kogi State police command to answer questions to criminal offences levelled against him to enable the police carry out a discreet investigation into the confession of the principal suspect but the lawmaker refused to honour the police invitation.
The police also said a case of criminal conspiracy and unlawful possession of prohibited firearms has been filed against the two suspects at the Federal High Court in Lokoja, including Melaye. Weapons recovered from the two suspects include two AK 47, five pump action guns and charms.
Meanwhile, Senator Melaye in his reaction to the allegations said it was a  frame up and an orchestrated attempt by the state government to discredit him.  The senator said he had never seen the suspects in his life and did not have anything to do with them.
He said the move was an attempt by the Kogi State Government to shut him up and prevent him from speaking the truth about governance in the state. The senator added that he contested and won election for the House of Representatives and Senate without working with political thugs, saying the plan had been exposed about six weeks ago.
According to the outspoken lawmaker, “This is an attempt to shut me up and stop me from speaking the truth, but they have failed; it is an orchestrated lie by the state governor and the police. It has been tweeted about six weeks ago that they wanted to set me up because I got an intelligence report from the state Government House when they met to set me up. “You can see the conflicting statements by the criminals. I heard that one said I gave two AK47 and pump action, while the other said I gave them only one rifle and that I also gave them N430,000 to train militia, and that I met them at airport road in December 2017 but they didn’t give a date and time. “I don’t know anybody, and I have not involved myself with any thugs since I became member of House of Representatives and a senator. If this is an attempt to shut me up, they have failed.
“The gang up is to shut me up and kill me. But though I walk through the shadows of death I fear no evil.
“I will continue to speak the truth. I was a member of the House of Representatives and now a senator without arms. Why now? I’m not perturbed at all. Melaye added: “I am only disturbed that under Buhari administration all these can happen. I’m afraid this have the potency to derail our democracy.
“I’m not afraid to die for speaking for the poor and oppressed people of Kogi State and Nigeria. They are not even smart because this is laughable.
“They couldn’t even mention the date and time in December in their concorted lies. The two hired criminals also contradicted themselves,” he maintained.