David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka A human rights organisation, International Society for Civil Rights and the Rule of Law has said over 3,850 persons have lost their lives since 2015 when President Muhammadu Buhari assumed office. The group said what was most painful was that a larger number of those killed were non-Muslims, and that the killers are strengthened by the taciturnity of the present government. In a recent research material released by the group and signed by its Chairman, Board of Trustees, Mr. Emeka Umeagbalasi, it said the killings were mainly committed by Boko Haram and Fulani herdsmen terrorists, who are empowered by the false labelling of innocent citizens, misrepresentation and distortion of facts by a section of the society. The group said lopsided security appointments by the present federal government has also continued to fuel and escalate the attacks and destructions carried out on Christian faithful and other non-Muslims and their sacred places of worship in Nigeria especially since mid 2015. “This is totally condemnable and despicable. It is recalled that the Janjaweed Jihadism or Jihadist violent attacks mostly targeted at Christians and other non-Muslim populations in Nigeria have resulted in the violent death or killing of not less than 3,850 since June 2015. “The killings since then by Boko Haram Islamic insurgents; majorly targeted at Christians and other non Muslims have also resulted in the death of not less than 2,100 civilians. Most, if not all the victims of Fulani Janjaweed attacks are members of the Christian faith.” The group said in the months of December 2017 and January 2018 alone, over 350 civilian deaths were recorded in the hands of the duo, while between February and middle of March 2018, Fulani herdsmen attacks have accounted for not less than 100 deaths. “In one of its most recent attacks in Plateau State, Fulani Janjaweeds killed 25 Christians and razed 11 houses including churches. More killings and property destructions including churches and dwelling houses have also been carried by the violent group since end of January 2018 in Nasarawa, Plateau, Kaduna, Benue, Adamawa, Taraba and Ebonyi States.” As solution to the problem, Intersociety urged the federal government of President Buhari to overhaul the present security headship composition in Nigeria and restructure it along constitutional, secular, multi ethno-religious and pluralistic lines to truly reflective the country’s multi ethno-religious pluralism and secularism. “Failure of the Buhari administration to heed this clarion as it has severally, stubbornly and injuriously done in the past two years will be tantamount to self invited injuries and harms including regional and international opprobrium and criminal indictment under regional and international justice system,” the group warned.