SUPERSATURDAY Samuel Animashaun, aka Sammy Perry, is a new comic sensation on the social media trending as ‘Broda Shaggi.’ The character is a neighbourhood street urchin popularly called agbero who comments on every issue in the country or his immediate environment. His skits are unique, hilarious and magnetic. Sammy, an actor and event host, is a graduate of the department of Creative Arts at the University of Lagos, in this interview with Azuka Ogujiuba, he talks about his passion for acting and how the Broda Shaggi character was created • My Girlfriend Jilted Me Because I Kissed A Lady on Stage
• I WANT TO USE BRODA SHAGGI TO EMPOWER NIGERIAN YOUTHS… Your character, Broda Shaggi, is sensational. How did you come about the character?
Broda Shaggi, the area boy character, started out as an acting role. I studied Creative Arts at the University of Lagos and I have always created different character roles on my Instagram page. So, Broda Shaggi is a character from the (neighbour) hood in Mushin who speaks his mind. He’s a street urchin who tries to make sense out of nonsense.
I have always wanted to be different. I have always wanted to put a smile on people’s face: my parents, friends, classmates, and the community at large. In trying to be different on social media, I looked at every comedian and their styles. So, I decided to bring something new to the game. I have different characters in me: like the policeman, Inspector Perry and the agbero, Broda Shaggi. The agbero character came out during Uche Jombo’s production, the series, ‘Boys are not smiling.’ That wasn’t the character I played but it happened behind the scene. I discussed it with my friend who is also my manager and he told me to go ahead with it. I started Broda Shaggi using Yoruba language but I saw that it wasn’t generally accepted and I wanted to reach everybody. I decided to try it in pidgin which I did and it worked for me and I knew this is what I had been waiting for. There is a skit you did on Big Brother Naija. What is your take on the new Big Brother’s voice?
Wow! Like I said in the skit, big brother’s voice is not what we expected it to be. In fact, I should have gone for audition for the Big Brother’s voice because I do not know who is speaking and it’s so surprising, when I heard the voice and I was shocked. If you had the chance to govern Nigeria, what would be the first thing you would change in the country?
I would empower the youth. There is so much talent in Nigerian youths which can help the country. Do you think you’ve ‘arrived’ now?
I’m not there yet. One thing is certain: I would not have been known if there was no support from Tunde Ednut. I will keep saying it because I was going through my direct messages and I realised that I have messaged so many people out there to help push my work. But there were no replies. Since last week though I have been getting traffic and replies on my page from so many people; people I couldn’t believe would message me. Broda Shaggi has brought me what I have always wanted. I’m going to help the youth so that everybody can be recognized. I know we cannot help everybody at once. But there are some people out there who need to be heard on social media. Everything is now on social media, including politics. I think I would like youth empowerment. If you had the opportunity to go on a date with a female celebrity in Nigeria who would that be?
It would definitely be Uche Jombo. She is a very nice person and down to earth. She has helped a lot in Broda Shaggi’s character. She advised me on many things to work on. Yes, it would definitely be Uche Jombo. How do you come up with your skits?
The inspiration comes to me whenever. Sometimes, I just sit and type out the question which the interviewer will ask and build up on that later. I start to get my punch-lines; make plots. I don’t like going direct when I’m passing a message because I want you to think, laugh and still get the message out of it. The inspiration comes anywhere either in the toilet or bed. Who has inspired you in the comedy industry?
I watch every comedian out there and I have not seen anyone do what I do. So, I don’t think I’m looking up to anybody because I have always wanted to be different. However, I have a lot of respect for Lasisi Elenu, Ogbeni Adun, Arole, and Tywese –they are creative. What is the story behind the name, Broda Shaggi?
Broda Shaggi came about last December when I was at a mechanic’s workshop to fix my car. The mechanic, whose name is Sule, was talking to a friend of his and said, ‘Olorun ti jesu ba lo wa si Mushin la san, ah emi ma gbowo o. Ma ro pe mo je Muslim o – maa gbowo o.’ I was just laughing because it was a funny situation and also the truth. In Nigeria, because of religion we don’t love one another and that was when I decided to do the ‘Jesus in Mushin’ skit. I got a lot of backlash on the video. I was called to take down the video on the day I posted it by a popular Nollywood actress but I couldn’t do it when I realised that the video had gone viral with over 400 downloads. The video was how I got the Shaggi name and it stuck. Have you ever been heart-broken and how were you able to cope with the situation?
Yes; I was heart-broken while at the University of Lagos. The relationship ended when my girlfriend found pictures of a production we did at UNILAG for a stage play in which I was acting the role of a husband to a friend and she saw picture of both of us kissing and concluded I was in a relationship with the other lady. I decided I wasn’t going into any relationship anytime soon and the heartbreak helped me push forward as I decided to channel my effort into my art. Is comedy all you do?
I majored in painting and drawing at the University of Lagos and aside from that, I sing. I did theatre too and I had a group called, Stage Addicts, which was what I lived on while in school because when we had shows and performances for very important people like ex-President Goodluck Jonathan and Governor Akinwunmi Ambode. How much does it cost you to produce a skit and how do you make money?
To produce a skit cost me a lot because one of the things I try to portray is the lifestyle of the people I try to imitate and there is no better way than being around them. It is different for me shooting against a blank space because it looks like I’m cracking a dry joke and knowing that I cannot leave without saying thank you for making my skit, I have to pay them a little amount which might be N30,000 or N40,000 especially now that they can see it’s a success on Instagram. Broda Shaggi’s character is very energetic. Where does this come from?
I don’t drink or smoke. But when I started Broda Shaggi, I would smoke but I don’t take it in. It’s just me portraying the character because if I was told to do that on set I would. It wasn’t helping me so I dropped it. The energy is from within. It’s actually from the passion of the work because if there was no energy in what I’m doing, there would be no energy for you to laugh. How do you feel when people see your work and laugh?
I feel happy and fulfilled. I feel like this is it because when I go through all my direct messages on Instagram, I feel happy reading them. I sleep with a smile on my face; that is why I post at night so that whoever is watching at that time, whatever he or she has gone through, that person can laugh and sleep well. I got to know I have many fans from UK. and Italy and it makes me happy when they tell me thank you for making them smile. What other career would you have ventured into if not comedy?
I don’t know because comedy is life; comedy is a part of me. I would have been a politician because I believe someone can make a change. I know money is power and without it there would be no change. But when you have it at the back of your mind that I know where I’m coming from and I really want to change some things, I think it would help. How old are you?
I am 26 years old while the Broda Shaggi character is three months old. Do you have plans to further your education?
I have plans to further my education, to do a master’s degree. Who is your ideal woman?
A calm woman is my type of woman. I know ladies want to talk and share their views. I love a woman who listens and would support and share my views. What do you think of men who abuse women?
That is one thing I would never do, when you beat a woman you beat your mother. People should understand that women are very emotional. It is not all men out there that are sane. Some just want sex. But I think there should be an understanding. We should all be very careful. Does Broda Shaggi have plans to be on screen anytime soon?
Yes. We will be on screen very soon. Broda Shaggi, the movie and series.