A new Chairman for the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Onne Chapter has emerged. He is Chief Kingsley Offor. His emergence followed his victory at the poll on Saturday in the Rivers State capital, Port Harcourt. He scored 78 votes while his opponent, Mr. Young Nwaneri got only 3 votes. With his emergence, Offor made history for his re-election for a second term of office. Besides Offor, Mr. Chidi Okafor was elected Vice Chairman; Deacon Chinedu Ikenga was elected Secretary; Sir Adindu Amadi was elected Assistant Secretary; and Erasmus Ekeowa, Financial Secretary. Others are Ugwu IfeanyiChukwu, Treasurer and Samuel Iroegbu, and Public Relations Officer (PRO). Offor in his acceptance speech hailed the electorate for reposing confidence in him by re-electing him for a second term of office. He thanked God for the peaceful and successful victory at the keenly contested election. “I will rededicate more efforts and zeal to ensure that the interest and welfare of members of ANLCA will improve in line with the association constitution”, he said. He assured that his second term will be anchored on more synergies and collaborations aimed to create smooth and seamless operations at Onne sea port. His words: “As the Chairman, we all have one collective interest, vision and mission to contribute meaningfully to the growth and economic development of Onne seaport and the nation at large. My victory at the just concluded election is a victory for all and for the improvement of the freight forwarding profession”. Offor enjoined all members of the association to come on board and contribute to the sustainability and growth of ANLCA. “ANLCA is a body of responsible, industrious and productive minds who are committed to the harmonious and continuous growth and development of the Nigerian maritime industry”, he said. The Chairman of the Association Electoral Commission, Barrister Onyimbah Raymond, thanked the Board of Trustees (BOT) members of ANLCA for their unalloyed support and also commended the good conduct and peaceful manner of aspirants and voters during and after the election.