• Soyinka, Utomi, Balewa point way forward Onyebuchi Ezigbo in Abuja The Nigerian Intervention Movement (NIM) has begun alliance talks with about 37 opposition political parties in the country. The parties operating under the auspices of Coalition for New Nigeria (CNN) met with the leadership of NIM recently to seek ways of cementing relationship ahead of next year’s general election.
The group said its major priority is to impact on the 2019 general election which it said is going to be a “rough fight.” The movement made its position known yesterday in Abuja at its grand national summit and launch of a grand political coalition on the future of Nigeria. At the event to mark the launch of NIM in Abuja wednesday, many opposition party leaders stormed the Nicon Luxury Hotel to show solidarity. Speaking in Abuja at the grand national summit organised by the NIM, leaders of the movement individually emphasised the need explore all avenues to sack the current government come 2019.
Speakers at the event which include Prof. Wole Soyinka, Prof. Pat Utomi, Olisa Agbakoba (SAN), Dr Abdul Jhalil Tafawa Balewa, among others, urged Nigerians youths to register and collect their Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) if the current government must be changed. The Co-chairperson, Olisa Agbakoba, in his opening remarks, said the movement was targeting about 30 million youths to prosecute the project, adding that the major priority is to impact on the 2019 general election which he said would be a “rough fight.” Agbakoba said: “And if you agree, it means that we here must be very united. We cannot do it alone. It reminds me of when we started the Civil Liberties Organisation (CLO), we were exactly seven but confronted this huge military apparatus. Eventually, we became the 12th largest human rights organisation in the world. It was our shared commitment. So, that is the commitment you are going to make. It is not to come to Abuja, dress fine and sit down. “If you want to displace the APC or PDP, it is going to be a rough fight. It is going to be tough. I can see so many people without PVCs. So, if we are going to make a difference, the first thing is to get your PVCs. It is of no use going to the mosques on Fridays or churches on Sundays to pray. Without PVCs, there will be no change.”
According to him, “Nigeria is like a big company where there are two million shareholders and in the case of Nigeria, about 200 million shareholders. Less than one thousand are controlling the rest. Think about it. The people holding you bondage, how many of them? They are not many. “So, we have to break this bondage by participating in the affairs of our country. That is the only way, but we need money. We do not want the money bags, but we need money. Do not kid yourself, we need money to prosecute this election but we do not need the old type of money. “I have studied the National Bureau of Statistics Demographic analysis. There are 30 million Nigerian youths between 18 and 40 years. That is our base. Donald Trump had a base. Trump won because he allowed Hillary Clinton to roam around the whole place. He focused on the uneducated white working class. We will focus, once we identify this base and work on them. If we have 10 million youths on our side, we are going to win,” he added. Another co-Chairperson of the movement, Dr Abdul Jhalil Tafawa Balewa, said the NIM was not “moved by bitterness nor are we motivated by hatred. So we shall not wipe away our past. “If we were asked to choose only three things for our children, it will be education, education and education. You cannot have prosperity without education and as our recent experience is showing us, you cannot even have peace and order without education. Judgment awaits them, and the present should not grant them space,” he said
On the abduction of school girls by terrorist groups, Tafawa Balewa said; “heaven forbids we lower our standards so much that we start to compare how different administrations deal with mass kidnapping.”
In a message to the launch, Nobel Laureate, Prof. Soyinka, urged them to be vigilant and watch out for ‘experienced spoilers’. “You must however exercise unrelenting vigilance. Prowling around you already are those recurrent interlopers, whose sole aim is to hijack your efforts or infiltrate your ranks with their stooges. Experienced spoilers, they are part and parcel of the very predicament you are trying to alleviate. Prof. Utomi said there was the need for a movement to get ordinary Nigerians to come on board.
According to Utomi, the idea of the NIM is to bring ordinary Nigerians together to form a huge voting block ahead of the 2019 general election.