Olawale Ajimotokan in Abuja Teenage golfer, Georgia Oboh is set to shatter the glass ceiling as the first Nigerian female professional golfer to play in the Ladies European Tour (LET). The feat followed her invitation to the Lalla Meryem Cup in Rabat, Morocco, to join a field of notable lady professionals, which includes Trish Johnson and Lydia Hall of the UK and the American rookie, Casie Danielson, who recently won the Lalla Meryem 2018 Qualifying School. The LET invitation is a reward for Oboh, who impressed the organisers at the last All Africa Junior Challenge in Morocco, where she captained the Nigerian girls’ team. The ‘A’ list tournament, billed for the prestigious Dar es Salaam Blue Course in Rabat, will develop and prepare the 17-year -old for the Youth Olympic Games (YOG) as the first Nigerian golfer, male or female to feature in any Olympics. However, as an amateur, she will not be eligible for a share of the 450,000 Euros prize purse at the LET event that holds from April 19 to 22. The Lalla Meryem Cup is a women’s professional golf tournament in Morocco under the high patronage of King Mohammed VI. The tournament alternated between Rabat and Agadir until it was moved back to Rabat in 2016. It has been played annually since 1993 and is held alongside the Hassan II Golf Trophy. In 2010, it was added to the LET schedule and upgraded to a full field tournament having previously been limited to around 12 players. Oboh, who also attended the 3 e Actuaries Equatorial Guinea Open in Mongomo last year, said her primary goal is to learn a thing or two from the lady professionals whilst honing her own skills. But she is not certain how the trip will be funded, as she is banking on sponsors to rally in her support. “It will be a shame to miss out on my biggest invite as funding is an issue. I am appealing for support from corporate Nigerians to support my quest for honour at the LET tournament. I hope I can get the support that I need and put Nigeria once again on the golfing map,” Oboh said.