Segun James The Lagos state chapter of the All Progressive Congress (APC) has suspended the convener of Broom United Movement (BUM), Mr. Fouad Oki, but BUM says that the philosophy behind the movement is to bring sanity to the party. The suspension of Oki, who is a party chieftain and former director general of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode’s 2015 campaign organisation, was ordered by the state chairman of APC, Chief Henry Ajomale, who also ordered the convening of a disciplinary committee to try Oki. Ajomale, in a statement said that the suspension is “fallout to launching of a pressure group in the APC on February 24, the State Chairman of the APC in Lagos State directed the immediate suspension of Mr. Fouad Oki, a Vice Chairman of the Party, representing Lagos Central Senatorial District and Convener of Broom United. According to the statement, Ajomale summoned the Surulere Local Government Party Chairman, Alhaji Shakiru Ajao and Party Secretary, Mr. Ganiyu Akanni to his office at the Party State Secretariat on Wednesday with strict instruction to empanel an investigative committee on Oki for convening the BUM and thereafter suspend him indefinitely from the Party, adding that this is necessary in order to stop others from doing the same thing. He further stated that he was acting on the instruction from above. Ajomale made it clear to them that the only agenda which is acceptable to the Party in the State at this time is the second term endorsement of the Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, anything outside that is not needed and will be resisted by all means possible. The LG chapter has appropriately summoned Mr. Fouad Oki to appear before the investigative committee on Tuesday March 6 at the Party Secretariat at Adelabu Street, Surulere. Contacted, Mr. Fouad Oki confirmed the receipt of the invitation to appear before the investigative committee on BUM, but he stated further that, the letter did not state his offence or any article of the Party constitution which he has breached or purportedly breached contrary to Article 21(B) of the Party’s constitution. He added that the action of the State Chairman of the party in directing the LGA chapter to suspend him at all cost was in gross violation of established procedure and disciplinary process. He said “Our founding fathers are very resolute in the kind of party that we are building; a Party that would ensure that, everybody is cared for and carried along, a Party that will not tolerate anything that will take away members rights to choose their leaders and representatives without force or intimidation. “BUM will ensure that our Party’s constitution is abide with and implemented to the letter, where every member will have a sense of belonging and can actualise his aspiration in an atmosphere devoid of imposition or intimidation. “I have humbly accepted the invitation and will appear before the Panel. I am not seeking for any office. I am here to serve and bring unity to our party. I call on all aggrieved party men and women to give BUM a chance to rebuild our party to give hope to Party members of all shade and creed” He reiterated the philosophy of BUM that “We are united in reaffirming the ideals that made our Party in 2013 to break the yoke of ethnicity and divisive politics to unite under an amalgamated legacy Parties to elect a Pan-Nigerian President. Our members are growing by the day. “As of today, we have over 25 LGA Party Chairmen and Executives as well as over 150 Ward Executives aside other members at the grassroots, our members are looking forward to a party of inclusion, the party of economic opportunities, the party of freedom and a united Party that will rise from the ashes of intimidation, imposition and godfatherism to the mountain of hope. “Our people are looking with nostalgia to the freedom of association without being coerced into a force second term agenda, the respect for our members and the sense of belonging that pervade our Party under leaders that are weak, self centered and lack capacity to institutionalize internal democracy. We the stakeholders are resolved to rebuild renew and rebrand our great party to anchor the dreams of our founding fathers and give wings to the hopes of our members who live in uncertainty,” he added.