By Hammed Shittu in Ilorin Five persons have  reportedly died  in an auto crash that occurred  in  Ilorin, Kwara State capital yesterday when  an epileptic driver had a seizure while in motion and rammed into an oncoming articulated vehicle. THISDAY checks revealed that the victims were four students of Mass Communication department of Kwara State Polytechnic who were returning home after their examinations . The victims, it was gathered, boarded the ill-fated vehicle from the polytechnic gate to Oke-ose area on the  outskirts of Ilorin where the students reside before the incident occurred. The victims were said to have prepared to travel to Lagos on that fateful day to meet their families having completed their examinations. Eyewitness accounts had it that the driver having shortly taken off from the polytechnic gate was behaving strangely behind the wheel and had to force the cab to a stop, a development that prompted the students to disembark from the taxi, insisting that they were no longer proceeding on the trip with him again. However following the interventions of passers-bye and other drivers who pleaded with the students to return to the taxi since the driver said he would go home and take care of himself immediately he dropped off the students, they agreed and proceeded with him. However, few kilometers, the driver suffered another seizure while the cab had gathered speed, causing the vehicle to lose control, hit a vulcanizer machine by the roadside before it swerved to the other side of the road where it collided with an oncoming trailer that instantly crushed all the five occupants to death. Wailing sympathisers used axe to cut through the squeezed  taxi cab to remove the mangled remains of the students and the taxi driver. The corpses were thereafter deposited at a University of Ilorin Teaching hospital. Contacted, the Public Relations officer of Kwara State Polytechnic, Ustaz Yunus Abdulkadir confirmed the incident and described it as very unfortunate. He however said three of the victims who were in Mass Communications department, adding that the institution was already making arrangements to inform their parents. 