To bring a new lease of life to local council areas in Edo State, the state government has concluded plans to organise an on-boarding programme to orient the new executives on the policies and programmes to reposition the state for efficient service delivery. The orientation programme will also equip the new helmsmen with tools and strategies to tailor their programmes and activities to align with the state’s overall governance strategy. In a statement by the Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr Crusoe Osagie, the state said the workshop, slated to hold in a matter of days, is designed to acquaint the new chief executives with the performance metrics driving the major projects in their areas and how best to synergise to achieve the state’s development blueprint. Meanwhile, some of the newly elected council chairmen have assumed work at their respective councils. Chairman, Ovia North East Local Government Area, Hon. Osazee Scott Ogbemudia, assumed office immediately after the swearing-in exercise on Monday, at Okada, the administrative headquarters of the council. After receiving the handover note from the Acting Head of Local Government Administration, Ovia North East Local Government Area, Mr. Austin Odigie, Ogbemudia inaugurated the eight members Assembly of the council. According to him, “As we assume administration of the council, we will make effort to align our policy to the development policy of the state governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki.” Chairman, Owan West Local Government Area and former Chairman, Edo State Football Association, Hon. Frank Ilaboya, said his administration will not betray the trust of the people, noting, “With the support of the people we will deliver on our promises to promote the development of the council in line with the vision of the state governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki.” The elected chairman, Esan Central Local Government Area, Dr. Edokpa Waziri, while inaugurating members of the local Assembly council, said that his administration will focus on the transformation of the local council.