By Onyebuchi Ezigbo in Abuja President General of the umbrella Igbo Organisation, the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief John Nnia Nwodo has urged Nigerians particularly Ndigbo to use this period of Easter to intensify their prayers for peace in the country. Also, the National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Prince Uche Secondus has urged Nigerians to use the period of Easter to reflect on the situation in the country and pray specially for the survival of our democracy. This is as the Democratic People’s Congress (DPC) in a goodwill message to Christians on the occasion of this year’s Easter celebrations, the national Chairman, Segun Peters called for sober reflection on the pious life of our Lord Jesus Christ, his crucifixion and resurrection for the redemption of mankind. Chief Nwodo said in an Easter message released on Saturday that Nigerians should not allow the prevailing hardship in the country affect their spirit of love, brotherliness and peaceful co-existence. The Ohanaeze boss said that the country was clearly under siege from all corners, the period provided good opportunity for Nigerians to pray more to God to send succor to alleviate their sufferings. In a statement issued yesterday, Nwodo urged Nigerians to use this year’s Easter festivities to engender the spirit of oneness and also re-dedicate themselves to the virtues of love, patriotism and unity for the desired national development. “Nigerians Christians must allow the solemnness of the last 40 days of fasting and prayers to influence their thoughts and actions in relating with one another. Nwodo noted that the Lenten period that just ended offered incalculable lessons in love, humility and forgiveness which should guide our way of living irrespective of religion, ethnic and political differences and help in ushering in a new and adorable era where bitterness, hatred is absent. The Ohanaeze leader urged Nigerians to use this period to think deeply at the state of the nation with a view to finding a lasting solution to the country’s challenges. “Restructuring this country is perhaps the sincere and pragmatic way to address the nation’s socio political and economic challenges and time is ripe for political leaders to embrace it” Nwodo reiterated his call last December during the Christmas and New year festivities on Ndigbo to always think home and not to allow the hardship occasioned of the last two years affect them in thinking about their homeland. The Ohanaeze President General said that the deliberate exorbitant tax in some states in the country were targeted at Ndigbo to cut their savings and discourage their “Aku rue uno” policy but he urged them not to be dissuaded because nowhere is their wealth more secure than home. Nwodo also urged Ndigbo to show more than passing interest in the socio political development in the country by ensuring that all eligible voters collect their voters’ card and be ready to use it effectively to pick leaders that would fight for their interests. The Ohanaeze finally wished all Nigerians a happy Easter celebration and prayed for enduring peace in the country. Prince Secondus said in an Easter message to mark the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead that the nation’s democracy more than ever before since 1999 is under heavy stress that need all hands to be on deck for its survival. The PDP boss said in a statement signed by his spokesperson Ike Abonyi, that the nation’s democracy is under pressure and requires only truth and sincerity of purpose from critical stakeholders to survive. Prince Secondus charged the nation’s leaders to stand up for the truth and save the country from deteriorating. The PDP boss specifically commended some nation’s elder-statesmen like former President’s Olusegun Obasanjo and Ibrahim Babangida and former Minister of Defence General Theophilus Danjuma for saying the truth about the state of the nation noting that truth and nothing else can set us free. “Indicators are apparent that the country is under siege and Nigerians should use this solemn period of Easter to pray for God to intervene and raise good leaders for the country”. Prince Secondus advised the APC led federal government to imbibe the spirit of tolerance and shun all undemocratic tendencies that heighten tension in the land. DPC enjoins Christians to imbibe the Lord Jesus Christ’s virtues of love, peace, compassion, tolerance and sacrificial life that pointed humanity to God. “The death and resurrection of Jesus Christ which Easter symbolizes is the foundation, pillar and cornerstone of the Christian doctrine. Jesus is therefore the reason for the season. We should use the occasion of this year’s Easter to renew our passion and relationship with Christ our Saviour,” he said