Amby Uneze in Owerri
For the first time in seven years, Imo State Governor, Chief Rochas Okorocha, has decided to conduct local government elections in June this year to elect chairmen and councillors to shore up support for the governorship ambition of his son-in-law, Uche Nwosu.
This came just as the governor directed the state House of Assembly to tidy up the local government laws for the supposed election. The governor spoke at the Sam Mbakwe International Cargo Airport yesterday on arrival from a foreign trip.
He, however, expressed displeasure that the All Progressives Congress (APC) is weak in the South-east and promised to take steps to strengthen the party in the zone and also inject life into the President Muhammadu Buhari’s campaign structures in the region. The governor stated that the endorsement of President Buhari remains unchanged even as he noted that those criticising his endorsement should present their own aspirant “if they feel that what they have is better than what we have endorsed so that the people can look at the whole of them and make their choice.”
He added: “You don’t criticise an action you do not have a better option.” “The APC primary in Imo State would be very transparent. It is going to be open. The world will be made to watch it. There will be no short-cut. Anybody who wins the primary becomes the candidate of the party.” The governor reiterated: “The “Rescue Mission” government in the state is on course. I have no apologies endorsing President Buhari for the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. My joy will be to see a capable hand, a leader who will continue from where I stopped. It is obvious that people have misrepresented facts in this part of the world. If democracy is to remain democracy in Imo State and Nigeria, there is nothing unconstitutional that we have done in the course of our endorsement.” He further stated: “The constitution is very clear, and it is a guiding principle upon which all democratic activities rotate. Our endorsement is not unconstitutional as the constitution has stipulated what a candidate must possess. Our candidate or aspirant possesses those qualities; so there is nothing unconstitutional in what we are doing in rescue mission of Imo State.”