When things fall apart between two lovers, every heartfelt poem and lyric of love become stale noise. Ask Joseph and Nora Penawou. Life happens. Change is constant. At any of these points, there is a need to make serious adjustments, embrace life afresh and with renewed vigour and just move on. Perhaps in adherence to the maxim that those who refuse to play second fiddle may wind up playing no fiddle at all, Nora Penawou, hitherto, the last wife of Chief Joseph Penawou, is embracing her relegation to the role of just any other wife. Yet, this has not always been the case. Back in the days when Nora, a model and the first face of Delta soap, had to walk out of held sway as the last and most favoured wife, she had the world at her feet; she got her wishes at a snap of one’s fingers and she literally ruled the billionaire household. She, it was, that slept and woke with the Delta high chief. Wherever he went, the stunning beauty was constantly by his side. She basked in the stratospheric adulation that came with being the apple of the oil baron’s eyes. Pray, who wouldn’t? But as it is constant with everything in life, change occurred. There was a report then in media that Joseph was seeing another woman and Nora wouldn’t have that, she pat into the air and received it in measured cadence. She allegedly walked out of the marriage. Not without a fight! Different acerbic stories were flying around about the fun-loving Delta-born billionaire. In a desperate dash for acclaim, they washed their sordid and very dirty linen in the public. News about his excessive philandering went viral. The blogosphere was on fire, literally though. Beautiful Nora, who bagged a doctorate degree in Human Psychology from the Loughborough University, United Kingdom, reportedly got a divorce when the alleged battery from Chief Penawou became intolerable. While the divorce rumours made the rounds, neither Nora nor Joseph debunked the story. Rather they allowed the story to go viral on the social media and in the print media thereby misleading the general public. Nora, who some friends in London sniggered and sneered at that time, for losing her position as the favourite wife, has moved on. Chief Penawou owns First Marine and Engineering Services Limited, Nigel United Oil Company, Tubos International Limited, Pena Oil and Gas Limited and First Drilling Services Limited among other companies. Now, the question, has Chief Penawou remarried or still searching? More on them next week.