 By Udora Orizu in Abuja Human Development Initiative HDI Cluster, a Civil Society Organization has lamented poor, unconducive learning conditions in Universal Education Board, (UBEB) beneficiary schools in the FCT, as a result of the continuous abandonment and non implementation of projects. Speaking at a stakeholders review and  validation of independent monitoring report on FCT UBEB 2014 Action Plan,  in Abuja, the researcher, Dr.  Olayemi Samuel explained that a monitoring exercise was carried out to track the utilisation of UBE matching grant in the FCT towards ensuring improvement in teaching and learning. He said the exercise which lasted from November 2017 to May 2018,  revealed that several approved multi million naira projects were either abandoned or poorly constructed,  adding  that general construction was non-friendly for persons with disability. According to him, “The findings showed non implementation of rehabilitation and abandonment blocks of classrooms, technical laboratories, stores, offices and recreational facilities  poor plastering, use of low quality woods, substandard roofing materials and unsatisfactory completion of some projects. “Majority of the schools visited needed more teachers, furniture for pupils/students and teachers, teaching aids, instructional materials, fence, school gates, halls, library and science laboratory equipment, boreholes, tiers among others. “It was also observed that most of the projects were already implemented even before the UBE intervention fund was accessed, however the implementation period was not in accordance with the expected project duration, ” he stressed. The most affected schools in the report are; Position Primary School, Tsaumi Primary School Gwagwalada, ANAC and Junior Secondary School Kwalu, Chibri Primary School, New Kuntunku Primary School, all in the FCT. Olayemi called on UBEB to ensure close supervision of contractors from foundation to final level to mitigate occurrence of use of substandard materials that could endanger the lives of the pupils. He also urged the board to make a priority  provision of  teaching aids and instructional materials, and ensure that  classrooms more friendlier for Persons Living With Disabilities (PWDs).