Nigerian and Chelsea footballer, Victor Moses, has been appointed as official Brand Ambassador of world leading forex trading company, Binomo. As part of the company’s plan to infiltrate the African and Asian market, Moses would be the face of the Binomo brand, an online platform where users earn on rises or falls in currency exchange rates and prices for shares or commodities. Moses, who was named by the Nigerian Football Federation as the 2018 Footballer of the Year and represented the country at the World Cup in Russia, is to help boost Binomo’s integral marketing campaigns. He is to also help the brand encourage Nigerians to bid for financial independence and success by being open to the possibilities that online trading can proffer. Delighted with the offer and happy to be on board, Victor Moses explained his relationship with Binomo: “Trading with Binomo is secure, accurate, and delivers superior customer service. I am happy to be involved with such a leading brand and a global leader in online trading.”
While speaking on the partnership, a representative of the company echoed similar sentiments: “Victor Moses is one of Africa’s most talented and successful footballers who perfectly personifies the ideals of the Binomo brand. “We are truly excited to work with him as we bring Binomo’s unbeatable service offerings closer to the Nigerian and African market.” Binomo has won awards as Best Broker for Beginners (2015 Forex Expo Awards), Broker of the Year (2016 IAIR Awards) and rated ‘Category A’ by Financial Commission, an independent self-regulatory and external dispute resolution (EDR) body, dedicated specifically to Forex. The trading company offers its users access to the most traded financial assets with helpful tips and free trainings to aid optimised performance. The platform also provides users the opportunity to enter into trades with as low as N360 ($1), a chance to participate in tournaments, technical support and a wide range of bonuses for new customers and active traders.