Frontline governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, Senator Magnus Ngei Abe, has threatened to boycott the primaries of the party scheduled this Saturday if the party fails to adopt direct primaries as earlier advocated by the National Executive Council (NEC) of the party. Abe, issued the threat while speaking at a mega rally organised by the APC in Rivers South-East senatorial district in Wiiyakara community, Khana Local Government Area of Rivers State. The APC governorship hopeful also threatened that he would not accept the result of the primaries if a candidate emerges through indirect process. Abe, who is the senator representing Rivers South-East district in the National Assembly, urged the party’s national leadership to reverse itself and conduct direct primaries in the state. He said: “It is bad that we continue to worship individuals when we want change. It is clear that they are doing what they are doing because somebody has been appointed a DG (Director-General). “If they are doing this to please one person, then the party will not move forward. If the primaries in Rivers is not through direct primaries I will not take part and I will not accept the result. “If we continue to be a nation where individual are better than our institutions then something is wrong. “When we were fighting former President, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, Amaechi called me that I should lead the party in the state. I did but when I want to pursue my ambition he turned me down. I am the leader of APC in my senatorial district but I do not have a ward Chairman,” Abe lamented. Abe told the committee that will organise the party’s primaries to remove his name from the list of aspirants if they are bent on indirect primaries. “Today, I stand here to assure you that nobody is bigger than all of us. It is the responsibility of the party to bring a better ground for all the aspirants “I hereby serve them a notice that they should remove my name from the list of the contestants. I will not participate in a process that has already been determined. “I will not be part of a coronation that the king will not be crowned. They have gone to the national that they will send me home. Every campaign of hate must stop, Rivers must move forward,” Abe stated.