Omololu Ogunmade in Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has said his administration would always uphold the sanctity of the law in governing Nigeria. Buhari, who made the pledge yesterday, during a bilateral meeting he had with visiting German Chancellor, Angel Merkel, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, also said all agreements signed at the meeting would be fully respected.
President Buhari’s pledge was coming barely six days after he declared at the opening of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) conference in Abuja that “the rule of law must be subject to the supremacy of the nation’s security and national interest”. A statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, quoted the president as saying that unity and harmony in every society could only be preserved by observing the rule of law, and ensuring that agreements reached in good faith are implemented for the mutual benefit of the two countries. Buhari, the statement added, also told the German Chancellor and members of her delegation that the rule of law embodied all the rightful mechanisms for conflict resolution, both within the country, and in dealing with all foreign partners. According to the statement, Buhari also told his guests that his administration remains focused on delivering a peaceful, economically viable and politically stable polity to all Nigerians.. The statement added: “The President said his administration instituted reforms in the economy to make it more internationally attractive and business friendly for investors, noting that infrastructure development had been a priority, especially in power supply, road and rail constructions. “President Buhari said the economy was already responding to the diversification reforms and the stimulus of the government as growth is now largely driven by the non-oil sector. “The President said Nigeria was politically stable and urged German investors to take advantage of the friendly climate.” President Buhari also noted that the successful political transitions since 1999 were clear indications of the country’s stability and preparedness to welcome more investments that will bolster the economy.” The statement further added that Merkel, in her remarks, said Germany was prepared to further strengthen bilateral and business relations with Nigeria, which, according to her, controls 60 per cent of ECOWAS economy. The German Chancellor was also said to have observed that the population growth and opportunities in the economy could always be explored to improve employment situation in the country. Merkel was also quoted as saying that the three memoranda of understanding signed during the visit marked a starting point for a healthier and deeper partnership between Germany and Nigeria in areas of security, trade, immigration and education. “The federal government signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Volkswagen of South Africa for the manufacturing of Volkswagen vehicles in Nigeria, while Nigeria Incentive-based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL Plc) signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Petkus Technologies GMBH for the supply of seed and grain processing machines. “The Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture also signed a Memorandum of Understanding with German African Business Association on fostering trade and investment,” the statement added. Buhari Warns against Illegal Migration to Europe Also yesterday, Buhari warned Nigerians to desist from illegal migration to Europe through the deadly Sahara desert and Mediterranean Sea, emphasising that those who do it, do so at their own risk.
He gave this warning while answering a question on what Nigeria was doing to stop illegal immigration to Europe during a joint press briefing he addressed Merkel. According to the president, Nigeria does not support any form of illegality and indiscipline from its citizens and hence, dissociates itself from any illegal migration through the Sahara desert and Mediterranean Sea to Europe.
He said any Nigerian who is dissatisfied with the situation in the country and opts to seek greener pasture abroad through illegal movement, puts his/her life in jeopardy. However, he said as done earlier, any citizen who gets stuck in Libya or anywhere in the world in the course of illegal migration would be brought back to the country by the government and sent to his/her local government.