*Says no formal complaints of violence, arrest or injury Alex Enumah in Abuja The Inspector General of Police, (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, on Friday commended the police and other security agencies for ensuring a peaceful conduct of the Osun State governorship election. The IG specifically commended the security agencies for their commitment and civility in ensuring adequate security and conducive environment for a credible gubernatorial election in Osun State. Also commended in the statement issued by Force Public Relations Officer, Jimoh Moshood, include the media, CSOs, INEC and the people of Osun State whom the IG lauded for being law abiding and peaceful throughout the elections. According to the statement, the IGP, “Extolled the high level professionalism, politeness, firmness and unbiased conducts of the police personnel, before, during and after the election. The Nigeria Police Force equally appreciates the law abiding attitude and peaceful conduct of the good people of Osun State, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Election Monitors/Observers, Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), the Media and other critical stakeholders for a good working relationship with the security personnel deployed for the election. “The good disposition and spirit of sportsmanship exhibited by most of the political parties in the election which doused fear and tensions during the election is gratifying and highly commendable”. The IGP stressed that the impressive performance of the Police personnel in ensuring law and order and a successful election was a clear testimony of the capability of the Nigeria Police Force in its renewed commitment to continue to adhere to International Best Practices in the conduct of elections in the country “now and in the future”. However, Idris in the statement denied reports in the media that security agencies intimidated and prevented journalists and observers from coverage of the election, particularly the rerun elections held in 7 units in the state on Thursday, September 27. While he maintained that there were no official complaints of violence or injury to persons reported by any individual or group, he however appealed to anyone with genuine complaint to make such complaint at the nearest police station, assuring that such complaint would be immediately investigated. “It is imperative to state that, there was no any Election Observer, Journalist or Electorate arrested, detained or prevented from carrying out their statutory civic responsibilities/duties during the period of the election. There were also no official complaints of violence or injury to persons reported by any individual(s)/group at any Police Station/Division in all the Seven (7) Units where the re-run election were held on 27th September, 2018, however, any member of the public with any complaint now should do so at the nearest Police Station for immediate investigation”, he said. The IGP accordingly, advised members of the public to disregard and discountenance claims in some certain sections of the media that the security agencies intimidated journalists, election observers and voters during the re-run election, adding that the reports were untrue, unfounded and entirely hear-say. He assured that the Nigeria Police Force will continue to sustain and improve on the election security successes recorded in the gubernatorial elections in Edo, Ondo, Anambra, Ekiti States and the just concluded gubernatorial election in Osun State as an index for the conduct of subsequent elections in the country.