Segun James The Dr. Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo Presidential Campaign Organisation has appointed Dr. Ayoade Adewopo as its Director, Strategic Communication and official spokesman of the organisation. The appointment of Adewopo, which takes immediate effect, was announced in a press release personally signed by Dankwambo. Dankwambo, who is the governor of Gombe State and a presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), said that Adewopo was specifically picked as a young, dedicated, committed, cerebral and loyal member of the PDP to lead the Media and Communications team of his campaign that would guarantee the real promise Nigerians have been yearning for. Adewopo, who contested the Osun PDP governorship primary along with Senator Ademola Adeleke, Alhaji Fatai Akinbade, Senator Olasunkanmi Akinlabi and Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi, among others, is a legal practitioner and holds a Doctorate in Jurisprudence from the USA, a Postgraduate Diploma in International Tax Law from Switzerland and a Higher Diploma in Business Administration from The Polytechnic Ibadan. He is also a licensed legal practitioner in USA and a Solicitor in England & Wales. Adewopo is also a public affairs and governance analyst, and a specialist on Corporate Governance & Global Trade Financing matters. He has worked with the Hong Kong Equal Opportunities Commission, the law firm of Ice Miller LLP in USA, as the Senior Global Operations Counsel for the Scotts Miracle-Gro company (NYSE: SMG) and as the Vice-President & Assistant General Counsel Americas for Ingersoll-Rand (NYSE: IR). The new Dankwambo Presidential Campaign’s spokesman once served as the Secretary, Vice-President and President of the Marion County Bar Association (Indianapolis, Indiana) between 2004 and 2006. Between the same period, he was also appointed as a member of the Marion County Public Defender Board of Directors and as a member of the Indianapolis Economic Development Council. He is a frequent speaker on Corporate Governance, Anti-Money Laundering, Global sourcing and International trade matters. Adewopo, who also served as a campaign leader for the Obama 2008 and 2012 presidential campaigns, is the President of Johnson Adewopo Foundation (JAAF), a foundation that is currently catering to the needs of Osun State indigenes in various areas of higher education scholarships, human capital and infrastructural development projects. Adewopo is a son of a prominent legal practitioner, late Adedoja Adewopo, and grandson of the late Timi of Ede, Oba John Adetoyese Laoye. His elder brother, Prof. Adebambo Adewopo (SAN), once served as the Director General of the Nigerian Copyright Commission. Speaking on his appointment, Adewopo thanked Dankwambo for giving him the opportunity to be in his presidential campaign team that would work to ensure his victory at the primary and eventually as the president of Nigeria. Adewopo said that Dankwambo is the face of the new Nigeria and that he represents the revelation that will birth a renewed, stronger and better “Nigeria of our dreams”. Adewopo called for the cooperation of the media and promised to work with them with understanding, as he was ready to operate an open door policy to drive home the good programmes of Dankwambo for Nigerians.