US- based Niyi Olumide emerged champion in the Men’s (Veteran) category of the 14th Cargolux Merchant Express Squash Tournament which ended at the Squash Section of the Lagos Country Club, Ikeja over the weekend. Olumide who represented the University of Lagos (UNILAG) Club, beat Dele Rafiu of the Benin Club to win the tournament for the very first time. The duo of Rofiat Abdulazeez and Faidat Soliu, both from Kwara State clashed in the U-19 Girls category with an exciting display of vintage squash. At the end, Abdulazeez overcame t her opponent, Soliu to take home the top prize. In the U-19 Boys category, Michael John overcame Adegoke Onaopemipo in a keenly contested final to cart home the top prize in the category, while Sahid Khan, also of UNILAG ran away with the top prize after defeating Mike Nwabuzor of the Ikoyi Club in the Veteran Open Men’s category. The duo of Sodi Pepple (UNILAG) and Layo Olupitan (Ibadan Recreation Club) went home with the award as joint third place. Funmi Bankole had also won in the Closed Veteran category (the phase of the annual championship open to participation to only members of the Squash Section of the Lagos Country Club), beating the likes of Ayo Ogunsusi (runner-up), and Taiwo Sanni/ Mike Adekoya who pocketed the joint third place awards respectively. Also distinguishing themselves were Bunmi Apata who emerged champion in the Closed Veteran (Men) category. He had beaten Haniel Hadison who picked the second place prize, while the duo of Tosin Olaniyan/ Fred Udo-Akagha emerged joint third place. Present to add colour to the event the President of the Nigerian Squash Federation, Boye Oyreinde, the tournament’s sponsor, Captain Oluwashina Akinfenwa, MD, Cargolux Merchant Express Nigeria, President, Lagos Country Club, Tajudeen Akande, Chairman of the section, Funmi Bankole, and a host of other dignitaries. Commenting on the championship, Nigeria’s Squash Federation President, Oyerinde said: ” To say that I’m impressed by what I have seen in this competition today is stating the obvious. It is an indication that the game of squash is not only an interesting sport, it is the fact that it has gained widespread acceptance across a broad spectrum of society. “” I have also been staggered by the level of the Cargolux Merchant Express Tournament. I want to say to the sponsors, well done and keep it up,”” he concluded.