Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has appointed the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, to head the party’s 85-member campaign committee for the Osun State governorship election, and vowed not to allow the gubernatorial electio n scheduled for September 22, 2018, to be rigged by the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) the “way Ekiti State election was rigged.’’ The National Chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, disclosed this yesterday in Abuja, while inaugurating the 85-member campaign committee headed by Saraki. Other members of the committee include Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu; all presidential aspirants of the party; former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode; Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Duran Odeyemi; Osun PDP Chairman, Soji Adagunodo, among others. Secondus said the committee would be charged with the responsibility to augment all activities of campaign and reach out to all the critical stakeholders mobilise all people in all the local government areas of Osun State, and to do everything necessary within the law to win the election. He stressed that PDP believes that the performance of the failed APC government in the state had given the party an opportunity to win the election, so that the people could breathe in fresh air in the sense of constant salary payment, infrastructure and other needs of the people of the state. “Our advice to INEC, because INEC seems to be a parastatal of the APC, where they will do result exchange, where they collude with security to arrest the critical stakeholders of the PDP a day to election, as we witnessed in Ekiti State. If this continues, then, we don’t know where are we all heading to. Responding, the Senate President promised to ensure that the PDP wins the Osun election. “The election is important because PDP has lost two governorship elections in the South-west – Ekiti and Ondo States. We must win Osun State to prove that the state is the home ground of the PDP.” Saraki noted that APC was no longer popular in Osun State, saying he hoped that President, Muhammad Buhari would live up to his promise to world leaders, that elections will be free and fair in Nigeria. He condemned the crude use of brutal force by security agencies by the APC government in the Ekiti election, stressing that Osun State election is crucial before 2019 general elections