Sunday Ehigiator Sholaye Jeremi, who is touted to be blogger Linda Ikeji’s significant other and the alleged father of her son Jayce, has distanced himself from the rumor swirl. Jeremi whose name was first heard in connection with Linda back in May, was said to have taken to his Instagram page and said: “God has blessed me beyond measures…I thank Him for life and my wonderful gift He bestowed on me this month.” This message seemingly sealed speculation that he was the father of the baby until he issued a press release distancing himself from the Instagram post.
According to Jeremi, he neither had an Instagram account or has any social media presence whatsoever. In a statement by his media aide, Obafemi Ajayi, the disclaimer read: “The attention of Mr Sholaye Jeremi has been drawn to some social media hoodlums who opened Instagram accounts in his name. “This is to inform the general public that Mr Jeremi doesn’t have any social media account and he’s not on Instagram. Even though the accounts are fake, bloggers, mischief-makers and quacks pounced on them; like harbingers of pain and ill-will, they cast it across social media, not minding the consequences of reporting lies as truth. “It becomes mortifying, therefore, to see the creeps leap in the mud and perpetrate lies in desperation, to slant the court of public opinion against Mr Sholaye Jeremi, a decent and well-cultured businessman. As far as we are concerned, their annoyingly comical posts not only beggars belief, but skirts moral boundaries. “The reports which attempted to disparage the hardworking oil magnate was curiously mischievous. Naturally, Mr Sholaye wouldn’t have responded to the poorly choreographed bunch of lies, but we just have to keep the record straight. We hereby appeal to the general public not to take the evil-doers seriously.” Meanwhile, Kemi Olunloyo, another blogger, has swirled the grapevine with allegations that Ikeji was never pregnant, rather used a surrogate. She said she put m a call through to the said Emory Hospital in Atlanta, but no record of a patient with the name “Ikeji” was found. She further claimed on her verified Twitter account that the viral delivery picture was photoshopped. In her tweets she reads; “#hnnopinion LMAO #LindaIkeji is officially 10 months pregnant today after her six months pregnancy announcement on May 17, 2018. Time to drop that prosthetic moonbump and call the surrogate who had settled for N1.8M. Baby J or JJ has no official dad. Even on her own post. Thanks Theo!” “#HNNGossip UPDATE
✓How Linda Ikeji fooled Nigerians for months with a moonbump. ✓Solaye Jeremi wants no association with Linda. Says he is not the father or boyfriend
✓How Linda’s graphic artists photoshopped her and family into @EmoryUniversity hospital bed #HNNAfrica”
Neither Linda or any member of her family has reacted to the allegations as at the time of filling in this report.