Ugo Aliogo Leading broadband communications service provider, VDT Communications, has announced the extension of its service offering to Small, Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) through its new product offering known as VDT SMEmpower. Speaking to journalists recently, the General Manager, VDT Communications, Bimbo Ikumariegbe explained that the new product was born out of the need to replicate the company’s expansive profile. He also revealed that the product showcases the company’s expertise on broadband communication in the corporate and financial sector to the SMEs sector. “We want to replicate what we have done in the corporate world, servicing 23 banks across Nigeria and many other corporate companies. We want to offer these growing small and medium businesses the support they require to flourish in their various industries,” Ikumariegbe said. Speaking on the features of the product, the Marketing Communications Manager, VDT Communications, David Ese, stated that the VDT SMEmpower is a dedicated internet service, nationwide offering five megabyte per second, zero down time connection for up to 10 number of users depending on the plan subscribed to. Ese explained that with VDT SMEmpower, small business can now have access to expert technical support to customise their internet solutions as they choose. Ese added: “Surprisingly, this product is very affordable and would definitely reduce the cost of business in the long run. With this internet service businesses can accelerate their growth through reliable and effective internet. Our service quality is world class. VDT Communications is ISO 9001:2015 certified and the first ISO 20000:2011 certified Telecommunication Company in West and Central Africa for excellent IT service management.” According to him, VDT Communications services including SMEmpower is available in all 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and offers dedicated broadband internet solutions that is fast, secure, and reliable for use for critical applications including electronic commerce, e-mail, remote access and for all kinds of data needs.