The all-new luxury Lexus ES 300h mid-size sedan, arriving in national dealerships this month, delivers sharper performance, new safety technology and craftsmanship that has been elevated to the next level. In an ambitious move that signals the brand’s on-going commitment to electrification of its vehicles, Lexus Australia is offering the seventh-generation ES as an exclusively hybrid range in Luxury and Sports Luxury grades.
Now in its seventh generation, the latest ES builds on the car’s renowned comfort, refinement and luxury appointments with an exceptionally rigid new chassis that allows for a more dynamic exterior design and even better driving performance.
The ES 300h joins the new flagship models, LS sedan and LC coupe, in delivering eye-catching styling with greater emotional appeal. It is the first vehicle in its segment to include, as standard fitment, head-up display, 12.3-inch multimedia screen, wireless phone charger and road-sign assist. The latest Lexus Safety System+ incorporates new features and expanded capabilities.
Australia is one of the first global markets to receive the ES 300h with its new self-charging hybrid system.
Power has been boosted almost six per cent (9kW) to 160kW while fuel consumption has been reduced by 16.4 per cent to an exemplary 4.6 litres/100km (combined cycle). It is the most fuel-efficient car in its class that does not require a plug.
Despite the new-generation enhancements and additional equipment, Lexus is encouraging greater uptake of its hybrid technology by launching the new range with a recommended retail price below $60,000 for the Luxury grade – a reduction of more than $3,800. Sports Luxury pricing has been increased by less than $3,000. Lexus Australia chief executive Scott Thompson said the performance and sophistication of the hybrid-powered ES creates an entirely new feeling of amazing that will attract new customers to the brand as well as traditional Lexus buyers.
“The all-new ES 300h showcases craftsmanship and innovation in every detail from its coupe-like body to its premium interior,” Mr Thompson said.
“We are also delighted to introduce a luxury mid-size sedan with a fourth-generation self-charging hybrid powertrain that delivers enhanced performance with minimal emissions,” he said.
Improved dynamics, performance and safety for the all-new ES begin with the advanced new platform that delivers rigidity close to the flagship LC and LS models.
Advanced combustion technologies have resulted in a new-generation 2.5-litre petrol engine that is among the most thermally efficient engines in a production vehicle.
It is combined with hybrid system components that are smaller, lighter and more efficient while ensuring smoother power delivery. A newly designed suspension system – MacPherson struts at the front and a trailing-arm, multi-link set-up at the rear – adopt saturation-type shock absorbers to improve overall responsiveness.
The driving experience can be further enhanced with active sound control, generating an audio feedback that gives the aural effect of up and downshifts like those experienced with a geared automatic transmission.
The style, technology and craftsmanship for the all-new ES have been inspired by the Lexus LS flagship sedan. A refined sense of sportiness in the ES design comes from the longer, lower and wider silhouette, complemented by a larger footprint due to the longer wheelbase and wider tracks. Alloy wheels are standard – 17-inch for Luxury while the 18-inch Sports Luxury wheels feature a hollow rim structure to help reduce tyre noise.
Attention to detail is demonstrated throughout the interior with elaborate design and masterful execution using hand-crafted surfaces and high-quality components.
Essential information for the driver is available through the 12.3-inch multimedia display screen, colour head-up display and an ultra-sharp LCD instrument panel that incorporates a 7-inch multi-information display.
Satellite navigation, Lexus Enform and DAB+ digital radio are standard. The Remote Touch Interface pad has been redesigned and gains vibration feedback.
Heated front seats offer 10-way power adjustment. In Sports Luxury, they are also ventilated and have four additional power lumbar adjustments. Rear headroom has been improved while luggage space benefits from the hybrid battery being relocated under the rear seat. ES Luxury features a 10-speaker Pioneer audio system. For Sports Luxury, the ES debuts a 17-speaker Mark Levinson surround-sound system with world-first design architecture created to immerse occupants in the most powerful, precise and richest audio experience yet, no matter their seating position.
Other ES Luxury equipment includes dual-zone air-conditioning, automatic rain-sensing wipers, a moonroof, electronic park brake, premium trim and a power-adjustable steering column.
Sports Luxury expands the air-conditioning to three zones with a humidity sensor. It is also equipped with a hands-free boot opener, semi-aniline leather-accented seats, heated steering wheel and adjustable, heated rear seats that recline. Advanced safety technologies
The new ES 300h is equipped as standard with the latest active safety and driver assistance technologies from the Lexus Safety System+. This package introduces new capabilities and expands the scenarios in which it can provide added protection for driver and passengers and help prevent an accident from happening.
The new features include daytime cyclist detection which is part of the comprehensive pre-collision system. Already capable of detecting oncoming vehicles and pedestrians, the system has also been enhanced to detect pedestrians at night by increasing the radar’s sensitivity and dynamic range. In addition to auto high beam that automatically dips headlights to avoid dazzling other drivers at night, Sports Luxury gains an adaptive high beam system with 24 LEDs (8 in the top row, 16 in the bottom row). It is capable of adjusting the light distribution pattern and brightness to provide optimal illumination while reducing glare for oncoming drivers.
All-new ES has 10 airbags, pop-up bonnet, all-speed radar active cruise control, reversing camera, hill-start assist control and clearance sonar. Sports Luxury gains a panoramic view camera, blind-spot monitor and rear cross-traffic alert.