SPYGLASS When the 90th birthday celebration of Tony Elumelu’s mother was announced a few weeks ago, many had anticipated that it would be the talk of the town for a very long time. This is because they simply know that the billionaire, who is also the chairman of United Bank of Africa, doesn’t do his things without a show of class. So, last Saturday in Lagos, the crème of the society gathered to honour the Elumelu family’s matriarch, Mama Suzanne Elumelu. The birthday shindig kicked off with a thanksgiving Mass at the Church of Assumption, Lagos and ended with a reception at the Harbour Points in Victoria Islan, Lagos. The chief host, Elumelu, joined by his siblings Peter, Ndudi, Loretta and Agatha, ensured that the celebrator had a most memorable moment at the event. As gathered, Elumelu is a man who likes to engage in the celebration of life. No doubt, the founder of Heirs Holding owes his nonagenarian mother a lot in life. For him, watching her mother and the patriarch of the family age gracefully gives him immeasurable joy. So, that Saturday, he showed the world again that he would go to any length to make her happy with all that God has given him. Elumelu successfully proved to the whole world that his pre-eminence in the banking world is not a fluke, given the array of guests who graced the colourful event inside the upscale Harbour Points. Without exaggerating, those that witnessed confirmed that It was simply sophisticated and captivating with colourful flamboyant personalities in attendance. Or how else does one describe the birthday party that made the whole of Lagos stood still? Tony spared no cost in making his guests most welcome. Some of the world’s most expensive champagnes and exotic wines flowed like water during the event, in fact, the millions of naira that was earmarked for the celebration was in good use. The event was graced by prominent dignitaries, including Aliko Dangote, Femi Otedola, Jim Ovia, Hajia Bola Shagaya, King Ebitimi Banigo Andy,  Chief James Ibori,  Segun Awolowo, Toyin Saraki, Akinyinka Akinnola, Oba Rilwan Akinolu, Oba Enitan Adeyeye Ogunwusi. Others were Otunba Adekunle and Erelu Oodu’a Ojuolape Ojora, Senator Ike Nwachukwu, Funso Amosun, Folake Abdulrasaq, Chief Emeka Anyaoku, Bolu Akin-Olugbade, Tunde Ayeni, Tayo Ayeni, Phillips Oduoza, Revd Mother Esther Abimbola Ajayi and Folorunso Alakija, among others. Rahama Indinmi’s Outburst If you think the dispute between Mohammed, son of former Military President, Ibrahim Babangida, and his ex-wife, Rahama, daughter of billionaire oil magnate, Mohammed Indimi, is over, then, you are wrong. Also, if you think Rahama has moved on, you are equally in error, as she is said to be nursing a pain in her heart, following the separation. It is no longer news that the two fought and eventually parted ways. However, who gets the custody of their children has become a very serious issue, a development that has resulted in a legal tussle. While Rahama, by a court ruling, got the custody of two of the children, her husband was also granted custody of the other children by another court. It was, however, shocking when Rahama, via her instagram account, recently remarked on her two kids with their father: “It takes a selfish man to use his children as weapons against their mother. He thinks he is only hurting their mother, but he is scarring his kids for life.” This is not the first time the lady would be going emotional, as she does this always on the kids’ birthdays. Rahama often posts emotional messages that reassure them of her love, while promising that they will meet someday. Kehinde Bankole Set to Bury Mother In-law Death is never good news but when it hit on one’s doorstep, fate has to be accepted. In few weeks from now, Lagos State is to reverberate to its root as a prominent member of Kwara State Assembly; Hon. Kehinde Bankole will literally relocate his state to the metropolitan city to give his mother in-law, late, Mrs. Florence Adetoun Olojede, nee Adeoye a befitting burial. The seasoned developer, who has carved a niche for himself in the real estate sector, is ready to honour his mother inlaw. According to source, the final departure of the deceased who died at the age of 68 is to start with a service of songs on Thursday 13th of September, while the Church service is to hold the next day at Christ Apostolic Church “Oke Anu” Idi Oro Mushin. Thereafter, her remains will be laid to rest at the Atan Cemetry. Reception will follow at Nikom Events Centre with well-planned sumptuous meals and drinks of worth. Proudly, with having a son-in-law like Honourable Bankole who handles about 70 per cent of Lekki Gardens project, all bills for the burial ceremony are settled for guests to feed on and take home at convenience. The founder and Chairman of KAB Construction, a real estate company that has executed many outstanding construction projects is no villain when it comes to speaking life into event. In describing the deceased whom they referred to as “Iya Ewe” and a mother of two boys and four girls, one of the daughters and a wife of the Honourable, Funmilayo said that their mother was an Icon, a selfless, a well devoted Christian that carried everybody along irrespective of tribe, affiliation and believe. She added that she was yet to come to terms that her mother is no more. Gbolahan Lawanson’s Assurance For those who know Gbolahan Lawanson very well, it was not surprising when he was endorsed by the stakeholders to  represent Surulere Federal constituency 2 in the House of Representatives. His choice was informed by the fact that leadership, in tough times, requires men with clear vision and a rare sense of service that will add value to the populace and for the good of all. Lawanson, founder of the very popular computer village in Surulere, is regarded as a man who can lead, define and address issues pointedly. Gbolahan, also a progressive, has also endeared himself to the hearts of his constituents through his philanthropic gestures. Jumoke Okoya-Thomas Vs Kemi Nelson Last Monday, hell was let loose at the All Progressives Congress, APC, Lagos secretariat when it was alleged that the South West Women leader of the party  Chief  Kemi Nelson stormed the Alausa office with thugs to harass, intimidate and oppress the new Lagos APC Women Leader, Hon. Jumoke Okoya-Thomas. According to the report, Kemi Nelson came with about six other women to the secretariat and proceeded to the office of Chairman, only for them to meet the executive members in a meeting. Impatiently, one of the women, Ayo Alli-Balogun went straight to Okoya-Thomas and told her that they would deal ruthlessly with her. Rather than replying in same tone, sources said she humbly left for her office in the secretariat. Alli-Balogun allegedly went outside the office of the chairman, started a fight with the Personal Assistant to Okoya and inflicted injuries on her. According to sources that spoke to Spyglass, Okoya’s emergence as the state women leader did not go well with Nelson as she backed another candidate. To the amazement of the later, She was favoured by the “unity list” of the party, hence Nelson’s animosity. Okoya, wonders why her predecessor could be acting in distasteful manner. She was quoted as saying: “God bears me witness; I have no grudges against anyone. She (Nelson) is the South West APC Women Leader and I don’t think my duties and responsibilities will clash with her own. My mandate is to mobilise all Lagos women for the success of our party in the 2019 general elections and no amount of intimidation from a fellow woman will deter me from achieving this goal.” Upon assumption of office, it was said that Okoya had extended a hand of fellowship to the South West Women Leader but she rebuffed her. Again, Nelson never vacated the former office meant for Okoya, who was said to be temporarily using a makeshift office. No doubt, apart from being the daughter of the late “Asoju Oba of Lagos”, Okoya has proven to be trustworthy and capable of bringing the womenfolk together. Another source said of her: “She is loved by all. Kind-hearted, she is loyal and amiable.  She is seen as a rallying point and a woman who can make things happen for the women and the generality of the members of the party and that was why the National leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed settled for her.”