The Executive Governor of Cross River State, Prof. Ben Ayade, over the week end expressed his readiness to partner Contec Global Agro Limited (CGAL), to make his state Nigeria’s agricultural hub for food security because of the company’s huge investment in research, using science biotechnology and ICT to drive commercial organic agriculture. Speaking after the facility tour of the companies tissue and organic fertilizer laboratories in Maitama, Abuja, Federal Capital Territory, led by CGAL management team, Prof. Ayade said: “For me, this investment is at the very core of food security in Nigeria, as it is just the easiest way to actually get the cultivate varieties that is needed for the nutritional value that can address food security in the country. “My administration would not hesitate to sign agreement and partnership with Contec Global Agro limited, as I’m quite impressed, with the facilities here assembled by the Chairman and Founder of the group, Dr. Benoy Berry. The Governor, called on the federal government and state governments to key into the company’s research facilities geared at addressing food challenge and the drudgery of farming, adding: “This is not just for federal government alone, state governments too should key into this, because this multinational company actually have more direct impact to take decision at the levels of federal government and state levels.” While he was excited at the facilities, Prof. Ayade, said: “I’m highly impressed with what I have seen here. I have seen a deliberate commitment of Dr. Berry and his company to develop Nigeria’s agricultural industry. I see a team that is really focused on research laboratories akin to the University standard in my days. I therefore think that there is a sincere commitment from the part of management and I’m really impressed with what I have seen.” On Cross River State partnering with CGAL for large scale commercial agriculture, he stressed: “That is why I’m here, I’m looking at the possibility of asking Dr. Berry’s company to producing for Cross River State banana tissue/cutting for specific African origin to give us a taste and style of what we want in the state. “For us, from what we have seen here and with few areas of improvement, definitely we are ready to sign partnership with your company for large scale commercialization of our value chain agriculture. In a remark, Dr. Berry, said it has always being the company’s desire to use its core competence using science technology to produce more health enhancing, more nutritious and more productive organic agricultural practices, stressing that the company is deploying cutting edge technology in secure ICT through its AfriOne handsets imbued with softwares to empower Nigerian farmers.