Scanfrost has opened a new mega brand store in Lekki, Lagos, as it strives to become the market leader in the consumer appliance space, The new store, located at Circle Mall is sitting on a 2600sq space and boasts a wide range of the company’s innovative and stylish products including TVs, gas cookers, air conditioners, refrigerators, deep freezers, microwaves, washing machines, toasters, health fryers, kettles, pressing irons and others in their different sizes and colors to fit a wide range of consumers tastes and budgets. The glamorous opening ceremony, which was graced by a number of popular chef lit up the Lekki environs, as families, friends, customers, and people from all walks of life, flanked the company to celebrate the grand occasion. In its 35 years of existence, the brand has been able to win the trust and confidence of Nigerians with its promise- keeping products, thereby giving room for expanding in its range of technologically built products  for the improvement and comfort of consumers. According to the company, it was part of its relentless efforts to promote easy living in the 21st century and give satisfaction to the modern day consumers that led it to launch its third exclusive brand store in Lagos. The firm’s Marketing Manager, Mr. Nitin Nambudiri, stated that the organisation had come to realise the concerns of Nigerians with home appliances that had to do with durability, longevity and ease of maintenance. In solving this problem, he said that the company devoted its  resources to providing quality, long-lasting and easy to maintain household appliances that come with impressive warranties “To ensure continuous pleasant usage experience for our customers, we have set up and manage over 40 after sales and service centers pan Nigeria, employing professional service experts who offer real time repairs and maintenance service on our products. This investment has enabled increased efficiency and performance of products, excellent service delivery and a growing consumer base across Nigeria. “By putting innovation and consumer satisfaction at the heart of our strategy, we look forward to adding more world-class experience brand stores to our wide network in the nearest future while further expanding the product range with  latest technology”, he said. Managing Director of the firm, Mr. Maneesh Nanda, added: “Indeed, Scanfrost’s consumer-centric mindset has contributed immensely to its phenomenal growth in the industry, making the brand a reliable choice, one that brings happiness, makes life easier and elevates happiness moments in millions of Nigerian homes.” In her testimony, popular food and lifestyle blogger, Sisi Yemmie, commented: “I’ve been using my Scanfrost cooker for over  two years now and I’ve had a pleasant experience with the company’s other  appliances. As a modern home-maker, I highly recommend the brand at your home and electrical appliances partner because of its quality features and excellent after sales service. The health fryer is one appliance I recommend to moms and caregivers because it allows food frying without using oil, which is a very healthy way to cook.” The highlight of the event was when the renowned cook,  Chef Tanq  demonstrated the use of some of the cooking appliances. He prepared ingredients, fruits and vegetables with the brand’s blender, cooked meals with its table top cooker, boiled water using the  electric kettle and used the latest air fryer which promotes healthy cooking to fry some of the protein. Attendees at the launch event were also treated to the freshly made meals, which included pasta and pesto sauce, chicken breast, and a variety of smoothies.