 The Kanu Heart Foundation in partnership with Masters Football, will this week stage the Petrolex Kanu Cup 2018 in an effort to raise funds for the foundation. Nigeria’s trusted source for the best in sports and entertainment programming Kwesé, has secured exclusive broadcast rights to provide live coverage of the game. The charity football match which takes place on Sunday 30 September at the Hive Stadium, London pits Premier League Masters against African football legends. Kwesé will broadcast full coverage of the events from 2.45pm on it’s free-to-air channel, Kwesé Free Sports. Football fans in Lagos can tune to UHF channel 32 to watch the match through Kwesé Free Sports terrestrial transmission. Viewers all around the country can also enjoy the action live on Kwesé TV channel 285, while those on the-go can do so through the Kwesé TV or Kwesé iflix mobile apps. A star-studded line up has been announced with the Premier League Masters to include; Jens Lehmann, Nigel Winterburn, Sol Campbell, William Gallas, Pascal Chimbonda, Steve McManaman, Robert Pires, Jonathan Greening, David Thompson, Teddy Sheringham, Louis Saha and Emile Heskey. Representing Team Africa will be; Rami Shaaban, Lauren, Emmanuel Eboue, Danny Shittu, Christopher Kanu, Quinton fortune, Eric Djemba-Djemba, Jay Jay Okocha, Yakubu, Lomana Lua Lua and Kanu Nwankwo. Through the charity match, the Kanu Heart Foundation is aiming to raise $35M to build a new cardiac centre in Abuja, Nigeria where they can successfully treat those in need and avoid costly travel and accommodation fees for sick children and their families. “The new cardiac centre in Abuja will help hundreds of people get access to vital heart treatment without having to travel abroad. I am proud that so many amazing ex-pros will be joining me in the Petrolex Masters’ Cup in association with Masters Football – it will be an amazing day and great help for the charity”, says Arsenal and Nigerian football legend, Kanu Nwankwo. Football fans can visit their nearest Kwesé branded store(s) to purchase a decoder and dish for N10,960, inclusive of one-month free subscription, or renew their subscription for N5,000.