*Defending Champions Akwa United through to next round The AITEO Federation Cup lived up to its reputation as ‘leveler for all teams’ yesterday as former champions, Shooting Stars Sports Club of Ibadan, Heartland Football Club of Owerri and Bendel Insurance FC of Benin City all crashed out of the competition. Shooting lost to Supreme Court while the Naze Millionaires were caged by Confine FC. Insurance lost to Remo Stars Feeder team. However, Cup holders Akwa United moved into next round of the competition with a comprehensive 7-0 drubbing of amateur club, Hope of Glory in their round of 64 tie. In Port Harcourt, Akwa United showed their form as they completely outclassed Hope of Glory with Aniekeme Asuquo grabbing a hat-trick while the duo of Victor Mbaoma and Ezekiel Bassey scored a brace apiece.
Shooting Stars lost 5-4 on penalties to fellow Bet9ja Nigeria National League side, Supreme Court in Benin. The game ended in a 0-0 draw after 90 minutes. Nationwide League one side, Cofine FC created one of the biggest upsets of the round by edging out Heartland 4-2 on penalties after the game finished 1-1 at regulation time. Plateau United sailed into the next round after beating Zabgai FC of Bauchi 2-0 in Kaduna, while Enyimba also defeated Wasiu Alabewewe 3-0. In Abuja, Go Round FC got an easy pass to the Round of 32 as Kebbi-based opponents, Dan Masari failed to show up for their encounter in Abuja. The match commissioner and other officials present made the decision after waiting mandatory time after the game should have kicked off. Team Manager of Go Round FC, Soni Uboh was disappointed the game did not hold but has accepted the situation. “We would have loved to play the fixture to put the boys in match shape ahead of next weekend’s Round of 32. “We took the trouble to come for the fixture from the South South, but is all good as we have made it to another Round of 32 in the club’s history,” Uboh said. Coach of the side Ngozi Elechi said it is still a good one for his team in spite of the easy passage. “It is a good one for my players because you know in football victory is victory and we are glad we have made it to the Round of 32. “In spite of the stress of the journey, we are delighted,” Elechi said ROUND OF 64 RESULTS Akwa United 7 – 0 Hope Of Glory
Abia Warriors 2 – 1 Smart City FC
Cofine FC 1 – 1 Heartland (4-2pen)
Kano Pillars 3 – 2 Ngwa FC
Sunshine Stars 3 – 1 FCIU Feeders
Nyangsagwang 1 – 5 FC IfeanyiUbah
Shooting Stars 0 – 0 Supreme Court (4-5pen)
Plateau United 2 – 0 Zagbai FC
Enyimba 3 – 0 Alabewewe FC
Delta Stars 0 – 4 Kogi United
Osun United 2 – 1 Minda Makurdi
Go Round FC 3 – 0 Dan Masari ( W/O)
Niger Tornadoes 3 – 0 Chief Of Staff (W/0)
Junior Kano Pillars 0 – 0 Crown FC (4-5pen)
Yobe Desert Stars 2 – 1 DMD
Bendel Insurance 0 – 1 Remo Feeders
All Stars FC 1 – 2 Kwara United
Katsina United F. 3 – 1 Jigawa Golden Stars
Madagali United 0 – 3 Katsina United
FC Ifeanyiubah 5. – 1 Nyansagwa