Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria Limited will be hosting its clients to the 2018 edition of the Standard Chartered Cup on October 1, 2018. The ‘Standard Chartered Cup’’ is an international five-a-side football tournament organized by the bank in partnership with Liverpool FC. It offers football fans including clients of the bank from around the world a once in a life time ‘Money Can’t Buy’ opportunity of being hosted by Liverpool FC in Liverpool, UK. Highlights of the trip for the participating teams will include an exclusive tour of the LFC stadium and museum, training sessions with LFC coaches, watching a live match in Anfield stadium and interacting with legends of Liverpool Football Club. Speaking on the event the Head of Corporate Affairs, Brand and Marketing, Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria, Dayo Aderugbo stated that the tournament was open for participation to invited corporate clients, commercial and retail clients of the bank. She said “Nigerians are very passionate about football and the English Premier League in particular. Hundreds of thousands of fans tune in to follow the English Premier League every week with Liverpool FC being one of the leading teams to watch. As a bank that is deeply committed to our clients and to the communities where we operate, we are proud to be able to leverage our relationship with Liverpool FC as the official sponsor to reward and motivate fans, clients and employees of the bank through football; a sport we all appreciate. We are excited to give our clients this grand once in a lifetime the opportunity to go to Anfield where they will get to meet with Liverpool FC legends like John Barnes and Michael Owen. Nigeria is one of the few countries within Standard Chartered globally that has had the privilege to be invited every year to participate in various Standard Chartered LFC sponsored events including the SC Road to Anfield Tournament. This is a testament to the fact that the Nigeria remains a priority for the bank and that we are truly Here for good.’’