Unmissable Incentives, organisers of the Nigerian Sports Award, NSA have congratulated Nigeria’s ping-pong prodigy, Aruna Quadri for doing the country proud by winning his first African title at the just concluded 2018 ITTF African Championship in Mauritius. Quadri who had earlier won the top prize at the ITTF Challenge Nigeria Open in Lagos continued his winning streak by beating Egypt’s Ahmed Saleh to emerge men’s single champion for the first time. Executive Director of the Unmissable Incentives, Mr. Kayode Idowu, commended Quadri for his consistency which had seen him record superlative feats over the years. He noted that the feat achieved by the table-tennis sensation bears testimony to the recognition accorded him by the Nigerian Sports Award having been a recipient of the award in the last three years. Similarly, the organisers also hailed the performance of the Super Eagles in the 3-0 defeat of Seychelles in a 2019 AFCON Qualifier played Victoria. Idowu who lauded the team for their performance against Seychelles and urged them to remain focused by ensuring that it secures the maximum points needed to guarantee qualification for the 2019 Nations Cup. “NSA commends Aruna Quadri for showing the stuff that he is made of by winning a major trophy at the 2018 ITTF African Championship. He has done well for Nigeria. We are happy that he has remained a shining light in Nigeria sports, winning laurels. “Equally, we are delighted at the performance of the Super Eagles of Nigeria against Seychelles. It is good news that they are soaring. We want them to continue in that path by making the country and football lovers happy. We can only hope that they continue to achieve good results in other subsequent matches,” Idowu said. Meanwhile, nominations are still open for the 2018 edition of the prestigious Nigerian Sports Award as entries from the general public for the various award categories continue till October 7, 2018. Nominations this year’s award including; Racket Sports Person of the Year (Lawn Tennis, Table Tennis, Badminton, Squash), Team Sports Person of the Year, Coach of the Year, Combat Sports Personality of the Year (Karate, Judo, Taekwondo, Wrestling, Boxing), Wrestler of the Year, Discovery of the Year, Footballer of the Year (Women), Footballer of the Year (Men), Athletics Star of the Year, School Sports Award, Sports Administrator of the Year, Sports Governor of the Year and Para Sports Person of the Year. AITEO CUP Round of 32 Fixtures Akwa United vs Aklonsendi
Mighty jets vs Kwara Utd
Osun Utd vs Katsina Utd
Ifeanyi Ubah vs J. Atete
Elkanemi vs Katsina Feeders
Wikki vs Bayelsa Utd
Kano Pillars vs Sokoto Utd
Cofine vs Sunshine Stars
Crown vs Abia Warriors
Dynamite FC vs Enyimba
Kogi Utd vs Niger Tornadoes
Nasarawa vs Standard FC
Remo Jnr vs Rivers Utd
Yobe Stars Plateau Utd
Go Round vs Supreme Court
Kebbi Utd vs Enugu Rangers