To set a definite course for its industrialisation drive, the Edo State government will be hosting stakeholders in the industrial sector, comprising trade unions, chambers of commerce and manufacturers, to a validation session for the newly drafted Edo Industrial Development Policy on Thursday. The Focal Person for the Edo Industrial Policy and Senior Special Assistant to Governor Godwin Obaseki on Investment Promotion, Mr. Kelvin Uwaibi, in a statement, said the session would serve to engage stakeholders in the sector especially the Manufacturers’ Association of Nigeria – Edo/Delta branch, Miners Association of Nigeria Edo branch, Edo Exporters Clusters, Nigerian Association of Small Scale Industrialists Edo branch, Technology Incubation Centre Edo State chapter and the Edo International Business Forum. He said the document is being developed in partnership with the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO), to ensure that the industrial base is built on international best practice. According to him, “We are holding this session after we had sent out draft copy of the Edo Industrial Development Policy to the stakeholders for review. This will serve to aggregate their views and critically review the document before we arrive at the final policy. “All these stakeholders were consulted and we believe it will be of immense benefit to have them look at it for the last time. This is because the Edo state government is keen and sincere in its plan to build an inclusive industrial base that everybody will benefit from and contribute to.” The policy is the brainchild of the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration to reset the state’s economy for growth and expansion.  In the run up to the development of the policy, Obaseki, who is pushing hard on big-ticket projects, noted that “steps that have been taken by our administration are in line with the state’s well-articulated industrial development policy which will support increasing growth rates, generation of sufficient employment opportunities and sustainable economic growth and development.”