As a go-getter, untiring  Kemi  Adetiba  probably  has envisioned an unusual breakthrough when she delved into video  directing. The wedding party is one flick that interrupted the movie space, her latest is presently taking the industry by storm, writes Omolabake Fasogbon With numerous golden caps on her head already, highly skilled Kemi Adetiba is pulling all stops to multiply her impact in the creative industry. Ruling the world in  a number of challenging fields, the multi gifted film maker is becoming more relevant in a new field she takes an interest in not too long ago.
Kicking off a career in video directing  with ‘The Wedding Party’ in 2016, it  was an awe inspiring experience that propelled more exploits. As a result of  the monumental success of her first, it was not too long that the television personality dropped the hint of her  new and second  directorial movie, ‘King of Boys’, which  has ever since come on the top list of much anticipated movies.
When she came on social media during the week to announce the progress of the film which is set for public launch in October 21st, it was like a lifted burden  for the highly expectant fans.
With her post on Instragam  captioned, “Now time for the arduous task of figuring out what I’m going to wear. HELP”, there is  no room  for further doubt as to the conclusion and readiness  of the phenomenal movie.
Like her first, “King of Boys” boasts of star-studded line up of both old and new A list artistes including  Sola Sobowale, Remilekun ‘Reminisce’ Safaru, Adesua Etomi, Paul Sambo, illBLISS, Akin Lewis, Toni Tones, Demola Adedoyin, Osas Ajibade, Sharon Ooja, and Jide Kosoko.
The movie as synopsised in an official website centres on  one Alhaja Eniola Salami, a businesswoman and philanthropist with a checkered past and a promising political future.
She is said to be a pillar of society who is loved by many, feared by most, and truly known by a select few. As her political ambitions see her outgrowing the underworld connections responsible for her considerable wealth, she’s drawn into a power struggle that threatens everything she holds dear.
To come out of this on top, she will need every ounce of the cunning, ruthlessness, and strategy that took her to the top, as well as the loyalty of those closest to her. But who can she really trust
The law graduate, who says her path in film directorial was divine, has never stopped to be extraordinary in all of her endeavours. As a television and radio presenter, programme producer cum director and even as a music video director, the one-time ‘OMO’ brand face has always attracted the kleig light with many rewards and recognition to justify  it.
In 2017, The wedding party,  first among others, headlines  the  Nollywood Week Paris Film Festival, an initiative that showcases the best of the Nigerian film industry, with the aim of finding a larger audience and more sustainable distribution system for quality films.
Kemi  also  made the list of the JCI International Ten Outstanding Young Persons (JCI TOYP) Awards in 2017.The annual awards programme sought to recognize  and celebrate young persons under the age of 40 who have excelled in their chosen fields of endeavour and created positive change in their communities
Kemi who is incredibly versatile was also in 2017 unveiled as the influencer of the   Remy Martin ‘One Life Live Them’ campaign in Lagos. The campaign sets out to celebrate and identify people who are not defined by one skill or talent, but are pursuing several things and succeeding at them. It is call to live a richer, larger life, expands horizons and seize all opportunities that life can offer beyond the one-dimensional path that could be embraced.
Kemi is inarguably one of the successful cinematographers in the country and a recipient of several awards and nomination s including  the 2015 City People Entertainment award for Best Music Video Director of the Year. She has signed a number of critically acclaimed music videos, such as More You by the singer, Bez; Ekundayo by TY Bello; Today Na Today by Omawunmi.
The   K-Alpha production outfit Founder who credits her accomplishments to God  discloses also that  her parent has been quite instrumental to her success. Clarifying this, she said: “My father, Dele Adetiba  is a veteran of Nigerian advertising and broadcast industries. It was pretty interesting growing up with him, with a lot of activities happening many times in the studio. We were on set for television programmes all the time. Infact, I had a creative childhood because I was exposed to the media a lot,n ot just with my dad,but my mum too.”
Speaking on her passion for movie directing, Kemi told CNN that the interest developed as a result of her quest for inventiveness: “I was questioning my longevity in front of the camera, i’d also find it intriguing when I would go off for shoots with the camera men. I said, instead of just wasting a couple of years, how about I learn a new craft while am doing that? What is the thing I want to learn more now? What is the thing that will take my career to the next level -being a director “.
She told the station further that the success of her first in the Nollywood was expected.
“I knew it was going to break the record, I knew it was going to do very well. I felt it, i sensed it. The greatest thing you can do for yourself is every time you have the opportunity to handle someone’s project, knock it out the park and that is what I live by everyday “
The awesome feedback from ‘The Wedding Party ‘ also motivated  her to launch a series titled ‘King Women’ a platform that enables women to tell their life stories and inspire others.
On this, she says: “The reason why I developed King Women is because I wanted women to see these role models of the earth, these women that we draw inspiration from that we put on pedestals, I wanted them to see themselves in their glory, but also understand that they have also gone through life, and life for them was not easy. People need to hear these stories, and I’m so grateful to everyone who gave me their time to make this series.”
Although, The Wedding Party broke record, this may however be  her least in terms of success in a male dominated field, as it is  her first major project after mastering the skill
Her second featured movie promises to be more exciting now that she has graduated to a stronger height. Who knows, this may earn her the Oscar award that she eagerly looks forward to.