By David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka Some members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Anambra State have raised the alarm over attempt by leaders of the party in the state to select their cronies as ward delegates in what it described as an illegal delegates congress. The members who spoke to journalists said some party stalwarts have gone underground to conduct the 3-man Ad hoc delegate congress for the state without recourse to members of the party who had bought forms to contest for the positions. Speaking on behalf of the aggrieved members, a member of the state executive committee, Mr. Obinna Okafor, alleged that the delegates’ congress was held on Saturday, saying that it would reject any list that emanates from the congress, which he described as kangaroo.  They accused the state chairman of the party, Chief Ndubuisi Nwobu and members of his executives of holding the congress in collaboration with some members of national assembly from the state. He said, “Let me remind you that the state congress for the 3-man ad hoc delegates’ congress in Anambra State has been shifted to September 13 2018 by the PDP National Headquarters Abuja. So why did they now hold this one on 8th September? “This exercise is not in good faith and cannot help the reconciliation process for peace to reign in the state chapter of the PDP,” Okafor lamented. Efforts to reach the state Caretaker Committee chairman, Ndubuisi Nwobu, proved abortive as his line was not connecting. Meanwhile, the state Administrative Secretary, Prince Ajulu Casmir, denied that any congress was held by the state executives of the party. According to him, “The congress was scheduled to hold in the state for two days, but has been shifted to September 13, 2018. According to information from the National headquarters, it will be nationwide. You can see that nothing is going on here. “Interested party members have been submitting the expression of interest and nomination forms for the various elective posts. So, I urge you to disregard the information that the congress has held.”