By Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja The National Assembly has extended its annual vacation by two weeks. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will today begin the screening of all the 13 presidential aspirants ahead of the October 6 presidential primary in Port Harcourt, River State capital. The screening of the aspirants will commence at 10 a.m. at the National Headquarters of the party in Abuja. The screening committee is chaired by former Vice President Nnamadi Sambo; with Chief Tom Ikimi; Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara; Dr. Okwesilieze Nwodo; Dr. Iyorchia Ayu, Hajiya Mariam Groma; Ambassador Kema Chikwe; Dr. Haliru Bello, and Chief Ebenezer Babatope as members, while the Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Udom Emmanuel will serve as the Secretary. It is expected that all the 13 presidential aspirants would scale through the screening process, leaving them to slug it out in the primary. The aspirants in the race for the presidential ticket are: former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar; Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal; Gombe State Governor Ibrahim Dankwabo; President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki; former Governor of Jigawa State Sule Lamido; former Governor of Kaduna State, Ahmed Makarfi; and former Minister Special Duties Duties and Inter-governmental Affairs, Kabiru Tanimu Turaki. Others are former President of the Senate David Mark; former Governor of Kano State, Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso; former Governor of Sokoto State, Attahiru Bafarawa; former Plateau State Governor Jonah Jang; Mr. Stanley Osifo and Dr. Baba Datti Ahmed. However, the presidential screening appeal panel has been scheduled to sit on Wednesday, September 26, 2018, at the presidential campaign office of the party at Legacy House, Maitiama  Abuja, to resolve whatever issues or grievances that might arise from the screening. The National Chairman of the party, Mr. Uche Secondus, will serve as the Chairman presidential screening panel, while Yemi Akinwonmi, Senator Gamawa Babayo Garba, Col. Austin Akobundu (rtd), Emmanuel Enoidem, Hon. Adewale Aribisala, Alhaji Abdulahi Maibasira, Kola Ologbondiyan, Dr. Agbo Emmanuel, Mai Adamu Mustapha, Hajiya Mariya Waziri, Dr. Eddy Olafeso, Hon. S.K.E Udeh-Okoye , Chief Austin Umahi, Emmanuel Ogidi, Hon. Theophilus Daka Shan, Senator Ibrahim Kazaure, Prince Charles Akitoye, Prof A.B.C Nwosu, Dr. Peter Odili, Ambassador Polycarp Azige, Hajiya Zainab Maina, and Alhaji Mustapha Yar’adua, will serve as members and Senator Umaru Ibrahim Tsauri, will serve as the Secretary of the
panel.