Sunday Ehigiator The wife of the legendary musician Ras Kimono, who was finally laid to rest a month ago, Efemena Okedi Kimono, has passed on. Her death came just three months after mourning her husband. The death was announced by project manager of Premiere Music, Michael Odiong, who said the incident happened on September 23. He said; “Yes, Efe Kimono is dead. She was confirmed dead today, early this morning. I can’t give out any other detail aside this for now”. Reports from her first son Onome Akpobome; had it that his mother was actually rejected by three hospitals before she died. He lamented that his mother was rejected or treated with levity by three different hospital, before she took her last breath; even though they had three hours they could have maximised to restore her breathing challenges to normal. Onome said: “On Saturday, we went to the beach for my uncle’s birthday. Nothing went wrong until about 2 a.m when she woke us up to change over because PHCN had brought the light, she then went upstairs and started complaining of chest pain. “At this point, she started breathing awkwardly. Her elder sister who is a nurse attended to her and gave her first aid, but her breathing was still laboured so we decided to take her to the hospital. “First, we went to Blue Cross Hospital at Ogba but the staff we saw were unresponsive. I was shocked to see their unconcerned countenance. When we saw that they were not ready to help us so we left and drove to County Hospital. “A doctor saw her there, checked her pulse and said she was still breathing but that they had no facilities to treat her. So he referred us to Lagos University Teaching Hospital in Ikeja.
“When we got to Lasuth at about 4 am, they also wasted our time for over 40 minutes and by the time they were ready to treat her, she had stopped breathing. The pain is worse for me because none of the three hospitals treated the case as an emergency. “In fact, I have given up on Nigeria because they all had up to three hours to save my mum, how can over three hospitals in Lagos not have the right facility to treat breathing problems?- None of them even had a stretcher, I am just totally done with this country.” E-trends hereby extends our condolence to the family in this time of grief.