A spectacular 89th minute effort from Daniel Sturridge earned Liverpool a deserved draw at Chelsea – but the end of their 100% start to the Premier League season leaves Manchester City top of the table. Eden Hazard’s 25th-minute goal, struck low across Alisson, threatened to make him the Blues’ match-winner against Liverpool for the second time in a week after his decisive strike in the 2-1 victory in the Carabao Cup at Anfield. But the visitors wasted a host of opportunities and were facing their first league defeat of the season until substitute Sturridge curved a magnificent 25-yard left-foot drive high past Chelsea keeper Kepa Arrizabalaga to the delight of travelling fans. Jurgen Klopp’s side fully merited their point, with the disappointing Mohamed Salah missing two chances and having a shot cleared off the line by Antonio Rudiger in the first half, before Xherdan Shaqiri missed an open goal and Roberto Firmino had a header swept off the line by David Luiz after the break. Alisson also made crucial saves from Willian and Hazard as both teams remained unbeaten in the league but had to settle for a draw. Chelsea manager Maurizio Sarri and Liverpool counterpart Klopp smiled and embraced warmly at the final whistle of a high-class encounter that left them with mixed emotions. Sarri will have been disappointed to see Chelsea concede so late but will have taken much pleasure from aspects of a performance that confirmed they have the qualities to remain in the race at the top of the Premier League this season. With this result on the back of the Carabao Cup in midweek, Sarri can look back on a highly satisfactory start to his Chelsea reign. Klopp will feel the negative of the end of Liverpool’s 100% start to the Premier League season – but he can reflect on a performance that resulted in so many chances created on opposing territory against a team they will rightly regard as close rivals in pursuit of the title. He would have shaken his head in disbelief had Liverpool left Stamford Bridge empty-handed given the golden opportunities they let slip through their grasp. Liverpool, no matter how late they left it, deserved their point. In the final reckoning, however, both Chelsea and Liverpool remain unbeaten with five and six league wins respectively – although the sight of Manchester City above them even after that superb opening is an ominous one.