A total of 48 Babcock University’s newly qualified medical doctors have been inducted into the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN) at a colorful ceremony, held, recently in Ilshan-Remo, Ogun State. Speaking at the programme, the President/ Vice Chancellor of the institution , Professor Ademola Tayo admonished them to be honest, diligent, empathetic and patient as they move out to practice. He also urged them to treat every patient with milk of human kindness, noting that the life or death of their patients depended on what they do or fail to do. “I pray that God will give the wisdom and skill to find the solutions and succor needed as you grapple with health problems and diseases that bedevil humanity, as well as new diseases with strange names that you would come face to face with,” he said. He opined that the inductees had received best training to compete amongst the best and to impact positively on the lives of people wherever they may choose to practice. The Provost of the College of Benjamin Carson School of Medicine, Professor Iheanyichukwu Okoro thanked the university administration for the wonderful support enjoyed by the school and teaching hospital so far. He said in the 7 years of its establishment, the school has graduated three sets of students, making it one of the much sought-after medical schools in the country. According to him, “a 600-seater auditorium and the college building have reached advanced stage, a state-of-the art skills acquisition centre that would further improve the hands-on exposure of the medical students would be housed in the new college building.” Following the full accreditation of Medicine and Surgery programme by the National Universities Commission (NUC), the institution has been listed in the world directory of medical schools, which will enable its graduates to apply for USMLE, PLAB and any other international examinations. He reminded them that they are being sent out into the world not as mercenaries but medical missionaries to change the face of medical practice in Nigeria. The Guest speaker, Dr. Folakemi Olomojobi enjoined her colleagues to be compassionate to humanity as they begin their sojourn into the medical practice. She also urged them to remember to take good care of themselves even as they strive to take care of their patients. Registrar of MDCN, Dr. Tajudeen Sanusi, urged the inductees to uphold the ethics of the medical profession, warning that they were penalties for defaulters.