By Ibrahim Shuaibu in Kano In an effort aimed at tackling the challenges faced by the girl-child in Nigeria, Girls-Connect, an innovative Interactive Voice Response (IVR) designed as a mobile service for them to be able to empower themselves through a developed unique service, is targeting one million girls across Kano and Benin City, in its pilot campaign. The Programme’s Deputy Country Director, Hadeeza Haruna Usie who disclosed this, weekend, in Kano, said it enables the girls to listen to pre-recorded stories via their mobile phones before connecting to a specially trained role model to answer questions that concerns them. According to her, Girls connect is in partnership with ISON group and 9mobiles in ensuring that the concept would give the girls the opportunities to practice what they learnt from stories and conversations they had with role models for them to open bank accounts and enroll in apprenticeships that will lead them to start their own businesses. “Our pre- recorded stories include inspiring stories, entertaining and educational lessons about growing up. Through such stories, the girl-child is able to address issues such as health, education, economic empowerment and safety.” The Founder and Chairman ISON Group Ramesh Awtaney said human beings live on hope and that through girls connect IVR service, girls in Nigeria have access to a key platform free of cost where their quest is answered and their faith reinstated to live lives powerfully. The Chief Executive Officer of 9 mobile, Mr. Boye Olusanya said the organisation is passionate about empowering the youths to succeed in life and committed to equipping them with all they could, for the success of the initiative. The Commissioner, Kano State Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development, Hajiya Yar-Dada Maikano said the state government accord special attention to the women in the state as it has embarked on different empowerment programs and issues such as education, health, shelter, economy, among others, related to the girl child and women are adequately taken care of by the Abdullahi Umar Ganduje‘s administration. The Emir of Kano Alhaji Muhamnadu Sanusi II represented by the Chairman Kano Nasiru Ado Bayero said the well-being of the girl child and women in general, has been a major priority to the emirate and that any initiative geared towards the betterment of their lives is highly welcomed by the emir. He said the Emirate is ready to support the group to achieve its goals in the state.