By James Sowole in Akur A chieftain of the pan-Yoruba socio-cultural organisation, Afenifere,  Chief Ayo Adebayo, at the weekend advised Nigerians to vote out the President Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) government reiterating that the party had failed the people of the country. Adebanjo spoke in Akure, Ondo State capital in his remarks at the special colloquium to mark the 80th birthday of a former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Chief Olu Falae. The colloquium has as its theme ‘Nigeria: Work-in-Progress’ and had the President of Ohaneze Ndigbo, Chief John Nwodo as the lead discussant. The elder statesman said Nigerians should ensure that the APC should not return to power at any level in 2019. “Nigerians must do anything that will get rid of the APC in 2019. It must be done at the local, state and federal levels. The APC has failed the country and it must be shown the way out,” Adebanjo said. Also speaking at the event, former Ministers of Information and Education, Professors Jerry Gana and  Tunde Adeniran, respectively, urged President Buhari-led government to do more in fighting increasing rate of hunger and poverty among the masses and persistent killings by herdsmen in the country. In his own remarks, the immediate former Governor of Ondo State, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, described Falae as a godfather of progressivism in Nigeria . He said, “Chief Falae has been an inspiration to us in Nigeria.” Falae, who is the National Chairman of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), said Nigeria needed political parties with ideology, saying most of the parties existing in the country lacked political  ideology. He explained that it was only the SDP that had the ideology as a political party. “This ( SDP)  is the only party  that can honestly be described as a political party with ideology and we need a party with ideology to take us out of where we are currently.” Falae stated. The colloquium attracted people from all walks of life both from within and outside the state.