Iyobosa Uwugiaren and Ndubuisi Francis in Abuja Eight maritime industry experts from Greece have arrived Nigeria to train 2,500 beneficiaries of the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP) on fishing. The project initiated by the Presidential Amnesty Office is expected to be launched soon. The Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta and Coordinator of PAP, Prof. Charles Dokubo, expressed optimism that the project, which includes the building of 100 fishing trawlers in Burutu, Delta State, for training of the beneficiaries, would enhance their capabilities and strengthen business in Nigeria, particularly the Niger Delta region. According to a statement by his media aide, Mr. Murphy Ganagana, while receiving a delegation of eight top managers of leading fishing institutions in Greece in his office yesterday, Dokubo urged them to replicate here what they had put in place in their country. “I have sat through most of your discussions and you have explained to me the techniques and the method of how you do your own business. “I want that to be replicated in Nigeria and in the Niger Delta because we are a seafaring people. So we hope that this new concept will work well for our communities and for the Niger Delta people and that the best that we can offer will enhance our capabilities and also strengthen the business and sea faring lives of our delegates,” he said. Earlier, George Theodoru, Managing Director, Theo-Man Limited, managers of the project, stated that the prospective beneficiaries would be professionally trained on how to operate state-of-the-art boats which will serve as a means of livelihood for them, their families and communities in the Niger Delta. According to him, “As project managers, we will organise the whole operation, consult the parties involved on progress made, and supervise each party for smooth deliveries. Above all, we are responsible for the technical consultancy to deliver good boats; to keep them working in good condition and maintenance.” Theodoru hinted that a study on a processing factory, including structures and facilities necessary for preparation of raw fish harvested for local consumption and export, has reached advanced stage. “So we are now offering a complete solution, starting from educated fishermen to professionalism, modern equipment, choices of profitable catches, transportation and preservation,” he stated. The project which is driven under a Public Private Partnership (PPP) has the Presidential Amnesty Office, Concept Amadeus Limited, Akewa Global Services Limited (AGS) and four Greek companies as partners. The foreign firms include Fintrilis S.A, Tel of Western Greece, Kreta Mare, El Mare and Theo-Man Limited.