David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has warned the leadership of Ohaneze Ndigbo against holding the proposed summit on restructuring in Enugu. The group said it would ensure that any such summit was disrupted if the group dared to defy its warning by holding it, regardless of whether the venue is flooded with security or not. In a press release signed by the publicity secretary of the IPOB, Emma Powerful, it said the summit would only hold if its members who would be on hand to scuttle the summit were all killed. It further threatened that if such happened, Nwodo and all leaders of the South-east and the governors from the region who supported the summit would not be spared, including their families, no matter where they resided. “Should the Nigerian army arrest or kill anyone on that day, Nnia Nwodo’s children and that of the governors and anybody else involved in the betrayal of IPOB and Biafrans in General will suffer the same fate regardless of where they are.” The group said it was not unaware of nocturnal meetings between Nwodo and a top military officer attached to 82nd Division, in the hope of holding the summit that would enslave Igbo for another 100 years. IPOB said Ohaneze was free to meet on any other agenda including referendum, but will not accept any meeting on restructuring. Part of the press release made available to THISDAY in Awka read, “We warn Chief John Nnia Nwodo of Ohaneze Ndigbo not to dare hold the Fulani-sponsored Igbo summit in Enugu. IPOB warn Nnia Nwodo and his collaborators in crime not to dare or face the consequences from the youth. “We respect and recognise our elders including freedom of speech and assembly but not one designed to enslave us in the deadly Nigerian contraption for another 100 years. We are well aware of the nocturnal meetings between Nnia Nwodo and a certain Brigadier General affiliated to the GOC of 82 Division Enugu. “If Ohaneze Ndigbo likes let them surround the venue with armoured tanks and Fulani soldiers, this is certain, the summit will not hold unless Nnia Nwodo and his collaborators kill us all on that particular day. “Nnia Nwodo and his collaborators are in the liberty to call summit to sensitise and educate our people for the upcoming referendum not restructuring to remain in Nigeria,” the group warned. The group said both Ohaneze Ndigbo and South-East governors’ forum had outlived their usefulness, and merely existed to entrench Fulani dominance and influence over Igboland and Biafra in general. “Without exception, they are all Hausa Fulani errand boys and girls. We have taken the liberty of chronicling the sad history of Igbo people and wider Biafra in Nigeria. “Majority of Igbos and Biafrans do not want Nigeria any more, if Nnia Nwodo and his collaborators in Biafraland are in any doubt, they should conduct a plebiscite towards the democratic demand for Biafra independence”, it added.