Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi Ningi Town in Bauchi State literally stood still on Saturday as their Emir, Alhaji Dr. Yunusa Muhammadu Danyaya celebrated 40 years on the throne. THISDAY reports that the 40th anniversary celebration, which held at the Danyaya Square, Ningi, attracted multitudes and several dignitaries including the Senate President Bukola Saraki, who was in company with Senators Nazif Gamawa (Bauchi North) and Senator Hamman Misau (Bauchi Central) among other senators and members of the House of Representatives. President Muhammadu Buhari was represented by the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu at the occasion. The Senate President Bukola Saraki, who prayed God to grant the emir longer life and prosperity, said they were in Ningi to celebrate with the emir on his 40th anniversary on the throne, saying that Ningi and Ilorin emirates share similarities that date back to the Jihad of Sheik Unman Dan Fodio. Bauchi State Governor, Mohammed Abubakar was represented by the Speaker of State House of Assembly, Hon. Kawuwa Shehu Damina. The Secretary to the State government, Muhammad Nadada, and members of the cabinet, the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state Alhaji Uba Ahmed Nana and other APC leaders in attendance. The occasion also attracted several prominent traditional rulers across the north including His Eminence Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, the Sultan of Sokoto, Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II, Shehu of Borno, Abubakar Ibn Umar Garbai Elkanemi. Speaking at the event, Buhari congratulated the Emir for being the longest serving emir of the emirate, adding that the Emir is known for excellent values of integrity, honesty and justice. The President said his subjects are also known for being industrious and brave and prayed God to give the traditional ruler longer life. Governor Abubakar praised the Emir for bringing unity and progress amongst the people of the Ningi emirate which comprised of Ningi and Warji communities. He pledged to bring development to the people of Ningi emirate. Also speaking, the Emir of Kano traced the historical ties between Ningi and Kano emirates to hundreds of years before the former migrated from Kano, adding that the relationship has blossomed over the years as a result of inter-marriages and trade between the two. Sultan of Sokoto, His Eminence Abubakar Sa’ad prayed that the emir of Ningi will live to celebrate 50 years on the throne and beyond. He also challenged leaders to emulate the emir and discharge their responsibilities. He however lamented that politicians flooded the town of Ningi with their posters and urged the people to respect constituted authority. In his remark, the Emir of Ningi thanked the multitudes that graced the occasion of his 40th anniversary on the throne. Danyaya said 40 years on the throne was a blessing from God and urged the people to play politics with decorum as 2019 general election approaches. The traditional ruler, who is now in his 80s, called for unity and peace among Nigerians, saying that the large turnout of tradition ruler on his 40 anniversary showed that unity exist among traditional institutions in the country. The Emir reminded the government about their constitutional responsibility which he said emirs are doing more than what was sought for in the constitution. Opposing state police, he advised that tradition rulers should be given more roles to quell the herdsmen-farmers clashes in parts of the country lamenting that traditional rulers are not being accorded the respect they deserved.