The senator representing Ogun East senatorial district, Buruji Kashamu, has commended the federal government for awarding the contract for the rehabilitation of the Ikorodo-Sagamu Road which links Lagos State and Ogun State. Sagamu, Ogijo, Mosinmi and other communities around that axis fall under Ogun East senatorial district which Kashamu represents at the upper chamber. Rising from its weekly Federal Executive Committee (FEC) meeting recently, the federal government announced that it has approved N20.845 billion for the rehabilitation of the road. Kashamu, who last Wednesday took to his Twitter handle @Sen_Kashamu to commend the federal government few moments after the news broke, wrote: “Thanks @ tundefashola for making @MBuhari-led FEC to award the Ikorodu-Shagamu Expressway. I recall the October 11, 2017, letter I sent to your office about the road which is one of the major roads in my senatorial district. My heart is filled with joy. Kudos!”
The acknowledged copy of the letter showed that it was received at the office of the Minister for Power, Works and Housing on October 16, 2017.
The letter read in part:, “I write regarding the Sagamu-Ogijo road, a federal road of high economic value that has suffered years of neglect. “The road is a petroleum distribution route and hosts several high value installations and industrial plants such as the Pipelines and Products Marketing Company (PPMC). There are a lots of huge man-hour and economic losses due to the deplorable condition of this road; including the unfortunate loss of lives on several occasions. “Minister, I however commend you for listing the road for rehabilitation in this year’s Appropriation Act. I urge you to kindly assist with the full implementation of the rehabilitation of the road due to its national importance. A copy of the relevant page of the Appropriation Act and photographs of some failed sections are herewith attached.”
Kashamu said the fact that the road has now been awarded based on the provision made for it in the 2017 Appropriation Act shows that if the various arms of government work together the people would be better for it.