By Bennett  Oghifo The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) has said it would resume the prosecution of former Inspector-General of Police, Mr. Sunday Ehindero, at a High Court in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, for alleged criminal conversion of money belonging to the Ministry of Police Affairs into personal use while he was at the helm of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF). A statement, yesterday, by the Spokesperson for the Commission, Mrs. Rasheedat A. Okoduwa said, “This development followed a ruling of the Supreme Court which dismissed the appeal filed by the former Police Chief challenging the jurisdiction of the Commission and that of the FCT High Court to try him.” The statement said “Mr. Ehindero and an accomplice had in 2012 been arraigned on a six-count charge for allegedly conspiring to criminally convert public funds totaling N16,412,315.00 being interests generated from the sum of N557,995,065.00 Police money he had placed in two fixed deposit accounts at Wema Bank Plc and Intercontinental Bank Plc. “The said money was donated by Bayelsa State Government to the Force at the time to enable it purchase equipment for proper policing of the state. “When the principal sum donated was to be transferred to the Ministry of Police Affairs from the accounts, the interests earned were not transferred with it, and that formed the crux of the allegations against the accused.” According to the statement, “On 6th June, 2012, Mr. Ehindero filed a motion on notice, by way of preliminary objection, wherein he prayed the trial court for orders: dismissing and/or striking out the amended charge for want of jurisdiction; quashing the amended charge against him for want of competency and; debarring any official of ICPC from prosecuting him for not having constitutional power to do so among others. “In the reserved ruling delivered on 21st September, 2012, the trial judge had dismissed the application in its entirety. “Thereafter, the former IGP proceeded to the Court of Appeal and again his appeal was dismissed by the appellate court sitting in Abuja on 14th January, 2014. A.D. Yahaya and T. Akomolafe-Wilson, JJCA concurred with the lead judgment of A. A. Adumein, JCA. “Mr. Ehindero took the matter to the Supreme Court where he has been asked to face his trial. “The matter ought to have come up yesterday Wednesday 11th April, 2018 for further mention before Honourable Justice S.C. Oriji of FCT High Court 10 sitting in Apo but the court did not sit.”