The Embassy of Ukraine in Nigeria in conjunction with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Nigeria and Office for Trade Negotiations (NACCIMA), Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Abuja and Lagos will host the First Trade Mission of Ukraine from April 3 to 6, 2018. The Ukrainian Mission to Nigeria will be headed by Trade Representative of Ukraine-Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Mrs. Nataliia Mykolska, who is also a special envoy of President of Ukraine, Mr. Petro Poroshenko to Nigeria.
Ukrainian delegation also includes Deputy Minister for Agrarian Policy and Food of Ukraine, Mrs. Olga Trofimtseva, Vice-President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Ukraine, Mr. Sergii Svystil as well as representatives of various Ukrainian companies in International Trade, Agarian and Food Industry, Automotive and Aviation, Engineering and IT -Technology, Chemical and Pharmaceutical Production industries. During the mission’s visit to Lagos on April 4, 2018, a courtesy visit to the Executive Governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode and the President of Dangote Group, Mr. Aliko Dangote is envisaged.
Also, there will be a Nigerian–Ukrainian Business Forum which would be held at Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry office and a Memorandum of Understanding for Cooperation between LCCI and UCCI will be signed. During the staying of Ukrainian delegation in Abuja on April 5, 2018, the Nigerian-Ukrainian Trade and Investment Integration Forum is envisaged with the support of the Secretariat of the Federal Government of Nigeria and participation of various heads of Nigerian ministries and government bodies. The event will be held at Conference Premises of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation. The Head of Ukrainian Trade Mission, Mrs. Nataliia Mykolska, will also, on April 6, 2018 make a courtesy visit to the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari to deliver a personal message of the President of Ukraine. The Nigerian-Ukrainian Business Forum will also take place on the same date at Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry office where active contacts between Nigerian and Ukrainian entrepreneurs are expected and a Memorandum of Understanding for Cooperation between ACCI and UCCI will be signed.