Olawale Ajimotokan in Abuja
Almost six months after the boards and parastatals in the Federal Capital Territory Administration were inaugurated by FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, allegation of N30 million employment scandal is rocking the FCT Internal Revenue Service Board. Though the management of FCT-IRS has remained mute over the allegation, some of the affected residents are threatening fire and brimstone and have called on Bello to investigate the employment scandal.
It was learnt that some unscrupulous top management staff of FCT-IRS have being collecting the sum of N200,000 each from 150 unsuspecting applicants, totalling N30 million with a promise to employ them in the revenue service. An unofficial source who confirmed the alleged infraction, stressed that the figure may increase if necessary steps were not taken by the FCTA and other anti-corruption agencies to bring the culprits to book, adding that the silence posture of the newly inaugurated board further gave impetus to the allegation.
One of the affected applicants, Emmanuel Kukah, lamented that the situation was unbearable as his hope to secure a job after paying N200,000 had been dashed. He, however, regretted that the money was paid without receipt to prove their claims, noting  that such transactions were always carried out based on trust and in secrecy. “I must tell you unequivocally that even if other victims keep quite over this issue, some of us will drag this matter to any length no matter whose ox is gored. I am particularly pained because of the anti-corruption stand of the present administration. They lured some of us into this employment scam through subtle but dubious means of replacement of existing vacancies in FCT Internal Revenue Services. They told me specifically that N200,000 will guaranty me the job since the procedures for filling the existing vacancies would not follow newspapers advertisement,” Kukah said.
He said out of desperation, he contacted family members in February to help him raise the money for the job, but has been hearing discordant stories why the recruitment exercise was delayed. “At one breath, they will tell us that the list has been sent to Federal Character Commission for harmonisation, and in another breath they will tell us that they are waiting for National Assembly approval. I grew suspicious when some of us discovered that over 150 desperate applicants paid for the few vacant replacement positions. The situation is no longer bearable and we are prepared to embarrass the FCT-IRS through the media and physically occupy their premises until justice is done”.
Efforts made by our correspondent to get the reaction of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Abdullahi Attah proved abortive.
•