Nume Ekeghe SunTrust Bank Nigeria Limited has been awarded ISO 2007:2013 and Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) Certification by the PECB Canada, one of the leading organisations in audit management systems and processes. The bank was awarded the ISO/IEC 27001:2013 Certification yesterday in Lagos after undergoing series of intense implementation exercise and audit processes which began in October 2017 last year. Speaking at the certificate presentation, the Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Muhammad Jibrin said the certification was a proof of the bank’s commitment to provide all its customers with maximum protection. Jubrin said: “When we opened our office for business in 2015, we actually promised that we would be technology-based banking. “Our commitment has been that we would ensure that we give priority to cyber security and even to physical security. “We also want to ensure that they are very efficient and more importantly, they must be highly secured.” “We believe to a large extent that our systems are the simplest and efficient across the industry. And today we are celebrating the certification of one of the most secured systems you can have across the industry.” He further pointed out that the feat could not have been achieved without the support from Digital Jewels Limited, which is an indigenous consulting firm that focuses on IT security, risk management governance and the rest. He further added: “These standards are required for anyone who wants to make payments with cards and without these two certifications you would not be able to say you are highly secured in what you are doing. “This is the foundation and we believe we would ensure that our customers are protected from cyber-attack and the same time, we would ensure that this certification continues and we are committed to that ad we would continue to do that,” he added. On her part, the Managing Director Digital Jewels, Mrs. Adedoyin Odunfa said: “This is a real milestone and it is important to note that these milestones are not easy to achieve especially for such a young bank and clearly it demonstrates that SunTrust Bank understands that IT is the game changer today especially for financial services industry.” ISO 27001 Information Security Management Systems is the international best practice standard for information security. ISO 27001:2013, the current version of the standard, provides a set of standardised requirements for an information security management system (ISMS).