By James Sowole in Akure Students of the Ondo State-owned Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko (AAUA) yesterday  gave the state government a  seven-day ultimatum within which  to facilitate arrangement for resumption of the institution. The students’ ultimatum was contained  in a statement signed by the officers of the institution’s Students Union led by the president, Ijanusi Olawale, the Secretary,  Adekunle Ayo- Lawrence and the Public Relations Officer,  Adelowo Samson. According to the students, if the government failed to do the needful  at the end of the ultimatum, which starts counting from today (April 2)  the government should be ready to face the wrath of the entire students. The students lamented that they had been staying at home for more than 80 days doing nothing. “It is quite pathetic and sardonic that the government has been quite undisturbed by this disheartening predicament. “The government has been so unperturbed by the fact that we are wallowing and wasting away at home. “We have wasted a whole semester at home doing nothing. The hope of our 500 Level Law students going to Law School is now hanging in the wind. “We are made to go through all this unpalatable rigours all because of the unfortunate indecisiveness of the government. “We have been silent enough. We will not allow the administration of the government to toy with our future. We have been pushed to the wall, and it is now highly sacrosanct, germane and imperative to take our destiny into our hands. “On this note, we are strongly giving out a seven working-day ultimatum to the government and also to the governing council of AAUA, to facilitate all necessary things  to bring about the resumption of AAUA. “This ultimatum count down shall kick-start on Monday, April 2, 2018. “Failure of the government and the governing council to do the needful will draw the wrath of the Nigerian students as we will be left with no choice than to take the centre stage,” the students stated. In demonstration of their seriousness, the students said they had sent copies of their positions to all necessary stakeholders including the state Governor, Mr. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN) and necessary security agencies in the state. The students had been at home since the end of the 2016/2017 academic session mainly over the decision of the government to increase school fees. The government had said increase in tuition of the institution was inevitable in view of the reality on ground.