  Hormones in your sexuality For women, estrogen (or estradiol) is the main sex hormone. It causes puberty, prepares the body and uterus for pregnancy, and regulates the menstrual cycle. During menopause, estrogen level changes cause many of the uncomfortable symptoms women experience. Every woman reaches a stage in her life when she wants to have babies and experience the joys of motherhood. However, there are various physical and physiological changes that occur in a woman’s body during pregnancy. These changes are brought about by female hormones, each of which plays a specific role. The levels of hormones change during pregnancy, and each hormone has a specific function. Certain hormones after pregnancy eventually decrease in secretion till they are brought down to a normal level or eliminated. Progesterone is similar to estrogen but is not considered the main sex hormone. Like estrogen, it assists with the menstrual cycle and plays a role in pregnancy. Cortisol has been called the “stress hormone” because of the way it assists the body in responding to stress. This is just one of several functions of this important hormone. Melatonin levels change throughout the day, increasing after dark to trigger the responses that cause sleep. Testosterone is the main sex hormone in men. It causes puberty, increases bone density, triggers facial hair growth, and causes muscle mass growth and strength. The sex hormones are estrogen and testosterone. Like all hormones, they are chemical messengers, substances produced in one part of the body that go on to tell other parts what to do. Both women and men produce both estrogen and testosterone, though in different quantities, and both sexes produce less as they age. These hormones seems to affect libido , by altering the threshold for erotic stimulation. In most animal species the brain controls and regulates sexual behavior primarily by means of hormones. Man and other primates are exceptions to this role because he depends on personal experience and cultural aspects than its does on hormones. However, hormones seems to affect your being able to be aroused,  by altering the threshold for erotic stimulation, regardless of weather the threshold in question is one of peripheral tissue sensitivity. Imbalance Today, ‘Hormonal  imbalance’ is a concern worldwide. Women are more likely to face effects of hormone imbalance as they undergo several stages of hormonal changes during puberty, menstruation, pregnancy, childbirth, breastfeeding and menopause. Hormone imbalance can destroy your health and looks; and when available in proper proportions, hormones can keep you young, healthy and cheerful. Hormones determine the ‘flight or fight’ response of your body. They help manage excessive stress and they keep depression and the related diseases away.