By Olawale Ajimotokan in Abuja The Federal Government on Sunday night released 23 additional names of alleged treasury looters. The fresh list was released two days after a list containing six names of members of the Peoples Democratic Party was released. Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, who released the fresh list, said the first list released on Friday which was criticised by the PDP was based on verifiable facts, including the amount involved, the date the amount in question was collected and from where it was taken. “Those complaining that the list was too short apparently did not understand that it was strategically released as a teaser,” he said, adding, ”At the press conference where the list was released, I did say it was a tip of the iceberg.” Slamming the PDP for daring to fault the list, Mohammed said government would neither be intimidated nor blackmailed into silence, adding that it will also not rest until all those who looted the public treasury have been brought to justice. Below is the statement containing the 23 names: Second Batch of alleged looters and the amount allegedly embezzled. 1. Former NSA Sambo Dasuki: Based on EFCC investigations and findings alone (this is beside the ongoing $2.1 billion military equipment scandal), a total of N126 billion, over $1.5 billion and 5.5 million British Pounds was embezzled through his office. A good number of these monies were simply shared to persons and companies without any formal contract awards. 2. Former Petroleum Resources Minister Dieziani Alison-Madukwe: In just one of the cases the EFCC is investigating involving her, about N23 billion is alleged to have been embezzled. She is also involved in the Strategic Alliance Contracts of the NNPC, where the firms of Jide Omokore and Kola Aluko got oil blocks but never paid government taxes and royalty. About $3 billion was involved. The Federal Government is charging Omokore and Aluko and will use all legal instruments local and international to ensure justice. 3. Rtd. Lt.-Gen. Kenneth Minimah: N13.9 billion. N4.8 billion recovered by EFCC in cash and property 4. Lt.-Gen. Azubuike Ihejirika: N4.5 billion. N29m recovered by the EFCC so far. 5. Alex Barde, former Chief of Defence Staff: N8 billion, and EFCC recovered almost N4 billion in cash and property already. 6. Inde Dikko: former CG Customs: N40 billion, and N1.1 billion in cash recovered in cash and choice properties. 7. Air Marshal Adesola Amosun: N21.4 billion. N2.8 billion recovered in cash. 28 properties and 3 vehicles also recovered. 8. Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed former FCT Minister: N5 billion. Interim forfeiture order on some property secured. 9. Senator Stella Oduah: N9.8 billion. Interim forfeiture order on some property secured. 10. Former Niger State Governor Babangida Aliyu: N1.6 billion – from NSA. 11. Senator Jonah Jang, former Plateau State Governor: N12.5 billion. 12. Bashir Yuguda, former Minister of State for Finance: N1.5 billion. $829,800 recovered. 13. Senator Peter Nwaboshi: N1.5 billion 14. Aliyu Usman: Former NSA Dasuki’s aide: N512 million 15. Ahmad Idris: Former NSA Dasuki’s PA: N1.5 billion 16. Rasheed Ladoja: Former Oyo Governor: N500 million 17. Tom Ikimi: N300 million 18. Femi Fani-Kayode: N866 million 19. Hassan Tukur, former PPS to President Goodluck: $1.7 million 20. Nenadi Usman: N1.5 billion 21. Benedicta Iroha: N1.7 billion 22. Aliyu Usman Jawaz: Close ally of former NSA Dasuki: N882 million. 23 Godknows Igali: Over N7 billion