Christopher Isiguzo in Enugu The lingering industrial unrest at the Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Enugu, assumed a new dimension Sunday as the workers asked the government to address the monumental crisis in the hospital within one week or have it shutdown. The workers who are pitched against the hospital’s Medical Director, Dr. Jojo Onwukwe, alleged that the situation in the area had broken down irredeemably as there have been escalating rascality, highhandedness, corruption and abuse of civil service rules by the medical director. In a letter by the University Graduates of Nursing Science Association, (UGONSA), signed by its President, Chief S.E.O Egwuenu and the Secretary, Goodluck Nshi, the workers asked the Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole to do the needful or the situation will degenerate. According to the group, “the current situation in the hospital if not checked will result in a breach of peace and a breakdown of law and order.” According the letter, peace would not return to the hospital without the immediate implementation of the report of a panel earlier sent to the hospital by the minister. They also alleged that Dr. Onwukwe, had refused to enlist them in the Integrated Payroll Personnel Information System (IPPIS), owing to increasing number of ghost workers in the payroll. The hospital has not known peace for over four years now, with the workers pitching themselves against the Managing Director, Dr. Onwuekwe, who is being accused of monumental fraud. The Joint Health Sector Union, JOHESU, had earlier issued a 21-day ultimatum to the management of the hospital over a litany of issues. JOHESU’s ultimatum borders on withheld salaries and arrears from February 2017 till date; withheld promotion arrears, withheld teaching allowance and enrollment of the hospital into the Integrated Payroll Personnel Information System (IPPIS).
The ultimatum was signed by Comrades Ozurumba Anthony, Onu Bank-Anthony, Sims Nwawgu, Ugwu Eric. A. Eze Mathew and Oduru Friday on behalf of the JOHESU affiliate bodies. One week to the expiration of the ultimatum, another workers’ union, in a letter dated January 19, addressed to the Health Minister, has vowed to shut down the hospital if nothing was done to correct anomalies allegedly being perpetuated by the Medical Director, Dr. Jojo Onwukwe. “The immediate implementation of the report of the panel will go a long way in restoring peace and harmony in the troubled hospital. We, therefore, call for immediate implementation of that report without further delay. “We are outraged that the Medical Director has boasted that he has an insider in the ministry who he settles with money and that is why the report has not been and will never be implemented. This appears to be the reason he gets away with the embezzlement, corruption, violation of civil service rules and all other impunities in the Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Enugu.”