Seriki Adinoyi in Jos Fulani herders in Plateau State have petitioned the offices of the National Security Adviser (NSA), Inspector General of Police (IG), Department of State Security Service (DSS), Special Task Force (STF), Governor Simon Lalong, among others over what they described as the gruesome and terrific attacks their kinsmen and the rampant rustling of their cattle by Irigwe militias of Bassa Local Government Area of the state. The petition dated January 25, 2018 and signed by the state Chairman of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN), Mallam Mohammad Nuru, expressed serious concern over the impunity of the militia who have maimed and killed herders in the Bassa Local Government Area and rustled their cattle, warning that their actions are a threat to the peace in Plateau State. Giving an account of the various attacks on the Fulani, Nuru said: “On Monday, January 15, 2018 Irigwe armed militias attacked Fulani herders around Gidan Ado village, rustled over 300 cows and 56 sheep; 26 were recovered alive but were quickly sold in the market due to major injuries, seven were recovered healthy, 38 were killed and dumped in a ditch at Mai Yanga village, while the remaining are yet to be recovered. The entire 56 goats are still missing till date.” He said Irigwe militias from Kwachudu village attacked Fulani cattle herders around Raffin Bauna village on January 18, 2018, shot and macheted 18 cows belonging to Fulani.
A total of five cows were killed and 13 seriously injured in that attack. He further said: “On January 23, 2018, the Irigwe armed militias attacked Fulani cattle herders at Dan Kuturu village from Kwal district in the same Bassa Local Government Area, killed two defenceless herders namely: Anas Lado and Musa Idris in cold blood without any provocation. The militias fired at some cows and injured five. “On January 24, 2018, the Irigwe militias re-attacked Fulani at Raffin Bauna from Kwachudu village and killed, beheaded and dismembered Ibrahim Shehu, a Fulani herder. While expressing reservation over the activities of the security operatives in the area, Nuru strongly advised that a meeting be convened to address the current challenges.
He said: “Therefore Sir, we enjoin you to use your intelligence to come up with an efficient and enduring way of upturning the resurgence in Irigwe land where innocent Fulani herdsmen are killed every now and then. “These criminals should never be allowed to continue to intimidate, harass and threaten peaceful herders. We use this medium to call on you to try to enforce peace and security in the state. We are appealing for fair and effective operation in safeguarding innocent citizens.”