Paul Obi in Abuja The Nigerian Army thursday launched another operation code named Operation Karabiner Goro geared towards tackling cattle rustling around Niger and Kaduna States. According to the Deputy Director Army Public Relations, Muhammad Dole, “the re-emerging cases of armed robberies, cattle rustlings and kidnappings in the general areas of Minna-Birnin Gwari- Pandogari axis and Minna- Sarkin Pawa road in Niger and Kaduna States continue to pose serious security threats. “These criminals use the thick forests as hideouts and major highways as staging areas to perpetuate their nefarious activities along highways, major roads, adjoining towns and villages.” Dole explained that “as a result of their dastardly acts, some remote villages were completely deserted, causing the residents to abandon their ancestoral domains to unknown destinations for their safety. “In response to these re-emerging security concerns, 1 Division Nigerian Army (1 Div NA) launched Operation Karamin Goro to clear the remnants of the criminals from their bases and ensure the safety of lives, properties and safe movement of the people within these general areas. “In this operation, troops of 1 Div NA are closely supported by Nigerian Air Force (NAF) attack helicopters, Nigeria Police Force (NPF) detachments, Department of State Services (DSS) operatives and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) personnel to ensure that peace and security, as well as law and order is restored. “Operation Karamin Goro (OKG) seeks to consolidate the gains of the previous operations by completely denying the criminals freedom of actions and the will to commit acts of criminalities against innocent and law abiding citizens.” He added: “Necessary arrangements and measures have been put in place to ensure safe passage of persons, motorists and their properties along these areas while the operation lasts. “While assuring the residents of these towns, villages and highway users the commitment of the troops and other security agencies involved in the operation, the General Officer Commanding (GOC) 1 Div NA, Major General Mohammed Mohammed seeks the understanding, cooperation and support of the public for a hitch free operation. “The public are requested and expected to provide credible information to the security agencies that will lead to speedy execution of this operation. “In addition to numerous means of communication, the public to enjoined to call 193 from any network provider to reach the security agencies for prompt response,” Dole stated.