James Emejo in Abuja The Minister of Works, Power and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola and the Managing Director, Rural Electrification Agency (REA), Mrs. Damilola Ogunbiyi, thursday said there was no fraudulent award of contracts amounting to N42 billion for electrification scheme in nine universities across the country, contrary to speculations. They further clarified that the total contract award approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) was actually N38.9 billion for the electrification projects and not the initial amount. Only N9.5 billion was finally appropriated for the scheme in the 2017 budget.
Both the minister and the MD gave the clarification at a public hearing organised by the Joint House of Representatives Committees on Power and Procurement following a House motion to probe allegations of fraudulent award of contracts in the scheme as well as breach of due process in the procurement processes. However, the hearing commenced on a rather disturbing note when Fashola, who was asked to make his presentation, started off by drawing the attention of the committee to the fact that one of the petitioners on the issue was among the committee members as their consultant. According to him, Mr. Arnold Van Arnult, had worked with the previous administration of President Goodluck Jonathan as one of the contractors who had issues pertaining to payments and ought not to be with the committee because of his interest in the whole matter.
It however, took the intervention of Chairman, House Committee on Procurement, Hon. Oluwole Oke, who reasoned with the minister but urged him to proceed to make his presentation as his remarks had been noted. After initial resistance and having made his point on Arnult, the minister, however, proceeded with his presentation.
He disagreed with the committee on the allegations that the contract award failed due process as procurement laws were not complied with. He said the contract passed through due diligence checks and was even cleared by the Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) which issued Certificate of No Objection for the process to commence.
He said answers to the committees’ questions could have been addressed through a simple letter between the ministry and parliament while the public hearing would have been needless. It however, turned out that the BPP had misinformed the committee on an earlier inquiry over the status of the contract as regarding due diligence by indicating it had no record of such contract or approval while it had issues certificate of no objection on same topic. Director, Infrastructure, BPP, Mr. Babatunde Kuye, said: “We were at loss what we were asked to do. We issued the certificate. We didn’t know you meant same project we cleared.” A member of the committee had said documents submitted by BPP could not be reliable as a result of the confused nature of the procurement agency. Nevertheless, Oke said the committee was concerned about processes followed in awarding the contract adding that “We are not against power to universities.” The committee further asked Fashola if he had heeded to parliament’s resolution that all procurement relating to the contracts in contention be suspended until the probe was concluded. But the minister said he never saw the letter conveying such directive and wouldn’t have obeyed what he’d not seen. Similarly, Ogunbiyi, whose agency is the focus of the investigation took exception to the allegations.
She said no contract had been awarded by REA amounting to N42 billion on the rural electrification scheme in some federal or any other universities She said: “REA denies the allegations to the extent of their inconsistency with facts and our position as contained in the memorandum submitted to this dignified House. For the purpose of emphasis, REA would like to reiterate the facts as follows: “The EEP Phase 1 is a scheme to electrify nine universities and one teaching hospital as opposed to eight stated in the motion. No fraud was committed in the conduct of the procurement processes towards the award of EEP phase one projects. On the contrary, the nature of technology, market forces as well as the number of deliverables in the package were the main determinants of the cost of the projects. “For instance, the project in each of the nine universities consists of a bulky bundle of five components or sub-projects, namely: (1)Provision of a generating power plant (2) Provision of street lights to enhance security of staff, students and visitors to the campus (3) Rehabilitation, reinforcement and extension of the existing distribution networks (4) establishment of a training center for training of students and technicians in renewable energy technology (5)Operation and maintenance of the entire infrastructure for one year certain from the date of commissioning.” She argued that “Making assertions that REA has fraudulently awarded contracts to the tune of N42 Billion for electrification scheme in nine universities (which is totally untrue) implies that the Agency had already been convicted by sponsors of that motion even before this investigation was ordered or sanctioned by the House of Representatives.”
She said:”The allegations went viral in the social and conventional media soon after the Motion and have brought enormous bad will and severely dented the public image of our agency. I am therefore, constrained to appeal to honourable members to approach this investigation with the plain, unbiased mind of persons truly seeking the truth and not fiction by adverting your minds to the facts as have been clearly articulated in our Memorandum submitted to you.” According to her:”REA has not violated the Public Procurement Act. It is true that the sum of N9.5 billion was approved for the EE Programme in the 2017 Appropriation Act, but this initial appropriation does not in any way represent the amount required for phase 1. The actual sum proposed for the first phase in the 2017 Appropriation Bill submitted to the National Assembly by Mr. President was Twenty (20) billion naira and it was envisaged that the balance would be incorporated in subsequent budget proposals as each phase is designed to be implemented in more than one Annual budget cycles.” She added: “However, when the 2017 budget was released, we were shocked to discover that the proposed sum of N20 Billion had been cut down to a paltry N9.5 Billion. Moreover, at the conclusion of the evaluation process for tenders received, it was established that the total sum offered by the least responsive bidders stood at N42 billion. “REA sought approval for that sum of N42 Billion but the Bureau of Public Procurement, after several weeks of painstaking review of the financial documents, rejected the figure on the ground that some of the unit rates were above their benchmark. The Bureau rather recommended that the contracts be awarded at a reduced sum of N38,965,147,881.92 for all 9 projects. Thus, only the modified contract sum of N38.9 Billion was presented to the Federal Executive Council (FEC) for approval, which the Council graciously approved on 21st December, 2017.” Ogunbiyi further refuted all the allegations leveled against the agency in the motion moved in the lower chamber.
She said:”The ultimate goals of the Energizing Education Programme are to provide our Federal Universities with alternative sources of sustainable, affordable and reliable energy and to send any surplus power generated therefrom to surrounding rural communities for productive use. I think we would have made significant progress towards reaching these goals when phase 1 is successfully implemented which will become a pilot for the next phases. “I make bold to say that the Energising Education Programme is a very unique programme which provides opportunities for fostering and promoting university education and research for the present and next generations of Nigerian children. I cannot think of any other programme so ambitiously targeting the improvement of tertiary institutions in Nigeria like this one and I balk at the very idea of anyone trying to truncate it at this point, because that will be tantamount to truncating the hopes and aspirations of our children.
“The economic returns of investing in good quality education enabled by uninterrupted power supply are uncountable. To mention but a few, the huge benefits range from improvement in human capital development with concomitant economic growth, to better research and pursuit of reliable academic calendars in universities and wider impact in society in terms of income distribution, reduction in poverty and ignorance.” National President, Association for Public Policy Analysis, Mr. Princewill Okorie urged the National Assembly to set up an Electricity Sector Illegal Revenue Collection Prevention Committee to investigate the past administrations’ expenditure in the power sector.