By Bola A. Akinterinwa On Sunday, 14th January, 2018, Pastor Tunde Bakare, a former presidential running mate of General Muhammadu Buhari in 2011 and Serving Overseer of the Latter Rain Assembly, presented his 2018 State-of-the-Nation Address, entitled, “It is Time to Renegotiate our Union’ to his Assembly (church). The word ‘renegotiate’ is synonymous with ‘restructuring,’ a word President Muhammadu Buhari (PMB) does not condone and for which he will always be prepared to do battle with anyone who toys with it. As media reports have it, Pastor Bakare not only complained about the mania and silence of the Federal Government over the killing of innocent people in Benue State by the Fulani herdsmen, but also drew attention to the Federal Government’s double standards when comparing the situation with the handling of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). As he reportedly put it: ‘look at what happened to IPOB; they massively mobilised the military because of a man who is not killing anybody, but just saying there would be no election.’ More important, he said, ‘in the present case, people, literally, were murdered and nothing was done. That is not justice and you are laying foundation for cyclonic eruption of violence because once retaliation or reprisal begins, we can’t handle it. An eye for an eye will render all of us blind. What happened to those 70 people is a sad tale. In fact, in a decent society, such a government will be shown the way out.’ And perhaps most significantly, Pastor Bakare not only said that he stood ‘to prick the conscience of a nation that has turned the other eye… while Nigerians are being murdered in various parts of the country by marauding herdsmen,’ but also put the complicity of the Federal Government, and particularly the Department of State Services in the context of official remissness towards the Fulani herdsmen. In his words, ‘who authorised them to bear arms? Who gave them immunity against Section 3 of the Robbery and Firearms (Special Provisions) Act 1990, which prescribes punishment for illegal possession of arms? Who monitors the use of these guns?’ Why have the relevant government agencies failed to act? In particular, why has the name Department of State Services (DSS) become synonymous with the phrase ‘Deliberate Sinful Silence (DSS)? Or is it now the Department of Sinful Silence? Above all, he believed that ‘the Federal Government has become complicit… by not advancing and vigorously executing policies aimed at pre-empting or preventing these killings even with sufficient warnings.’ There are many critical issues in the foregoing quotations. The first issue is the belief in ‘deliberate silence’ in the political governance of Nigeria and which Pastor Bakare considers very sinful. Another question is the changing function or additional roles of the Department of State Services, which is maintaining silence.
In fact, silence is the most critical issue as the acronym, DSS, now reflects the elevation and importance of sinful silence in the governance of Nigeria. One cannot agree more with Pastor Bakare on this observation but there is still the need to also put the observed conspiratorial and sinful silence in the context of general political governance of Nigeria, which not only prevents Nigeria from making progress in all its ramifications, but which also makes the need for either renegotiation or restructuring a desideratum if national unity is to have a solid foundation. Put differently, let us learn from one Yoruba proverbial saying, according to which ‘ati ibi isana ni won ti kiyesi ogun,’ that is, ‘it is from a stick of match that one should be cautious of, or appreciate, juju (marabout). Thus, the accusation of silence should not be limited to the Federal Government alone or even to any State Government because it is also manifested at the level of the generality of the people of Nigeria. Nigerians, even at the level of civil society organisations which have specific objectives, hardly complain against societal ills for as long as they derive some benefits. The truth is that the consciousness of Nigeria as a nation or nation state does not exist on the minds of most Nigerians, particularly all those claiming to be leaders and patriots. And most unfortunately, however, they are the very people the international community is dealing with. Let us illustrate this observation with some empirical cases in the political governance of Nigeria. Political Governance in Nigeria Political governance in Nigeria is especially predicated on the management of esprit de Corps, political chicanery and ethnic chauvinism. Rather than focus primarily on developmental questions, such as issues in productivity and growth rate, population development, use of foreign policy to grow the economy and defend Nigerians, as well as promotion of national integration, emphasis is always put on regime survival, as clearly manifested in party politics and its focus on forthcoming election.
Let us first of all look at the current controversial remarks by Donald Trump about the good people of Africa. In this regard, there cannot but be ‘sinful silence’ in the context of diplomatic declarations without meaning and message, as evident in the statement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the controversial statement. On Thursday, 11th January, 2018, Donald Trump held a meeting with the US Congressional Leaders at the Oval Office during which a suggested new approach was made on how best to deal with the protection of the immigrants in the country. In reaction to the suggested plan of action, Donald Trump reportedly asked: ‘why are we having all these people from shithole countries come here?’ What is shithole and which countries are referred to as shithole? Shithole can first be looked at as a combination of two words: shit and hole. Shit, as understood within the context of bullshit, is not complimentary. Shit as another word for excreta is also not complimentary. In other words, any word having to do with ‘shit’ is not good. Its use cannot but be offensive. Even though Donald Trump has denied the use of the word, some of the Congressional leaders who participated in the meeting still said Donald Trump actually used the word while some others argued that Donald Trump did not intend to insult anyone. In light of Donald Trump’s denial, the invitation extended by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to US Ambassador to Nigeria, His Excellency, Mr. Symington, to come and explain what Donald Trump meant by the use of ‘shithole’ was in order. However, for two main reasons, it is not. First, Nigeria has consciously admitted that Donald Trump really used the word. It is on this basis that the US Ambassador, Symington, who was represented by the Deputy Chief of Mission, Mr. David J. Young, in his absence, was invited to explain. If the belief was not there, there would not have been any need to have him invited. Second, the statement of the Foreign Ministry, as reportedly issued by the spokesperson of the Ministry, Dr. Tope Elias-Fatile, ‘[t]he Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, today, summoned the US Ambassador to Nigeria to clarify issues regarding the remarks credited to the US President, Mr. Donald Trump, in which he was widely quoted in media reports as referring to African countries as “shithole countries” and which he denied… The Minister sought clarification on the veracity or otherwise of the substance of the remarks, stressing that if they were true, they were deeply hurtful, offensive and unacceptable, especially given the very warm and cordial relations that presently exist between the Nigerian Government and the Government of the United States of America.’ If we take a closer look at the statement, the ‘sinful silence’ of the Government of Nigeria cannot be far-fetched, especially when it is compared with that of the other leading countries of Africa, like South Africa. At the level of the Foreign Ministry’s statement, the clarification sought was actually made ambiguous with the explanation of Ambassador David Young who said that ‘there were contradicting accounts by those present as to the veracity or otherwise of the substance of the remarks.’ In this regard, what really is the position of Nigeria on the matter? The Foreign Ministry said, if Donald Trump’s remarks were true, ‘they were deeply hurtful, offensive and unacceptable, especially given the very warm and cordial relations that presently exist’ between the two countries. This is a good statement at the level of commentary but most unfortunate at the analytical level. The hurtfulness, the offensiveness and unacceptability to Nigeria is not on the basis of Nigeria’s current relations with the United States but to future relations. This is because of the difference between ‘at present’ and ‘presently.’ ‘At present’ means ‘now’ while ‘presently’ refers to the future. Thus, there is unnecessary sinful silence on the veracity or otherwise on Donald Trump’s remarks. Perhaps more importantly, unlike Nigeria, South Africa made clear her policy direction on the matter. South Africa not only stated her support for the statement of the African Union which described Donald Trump’s description of African countries as ‘shithole countries,’ as ‘shock, dismay, and outrage,’ but also noted as follows: ‘we agree to the importance of strong relations between South Africa and the United States that are based on mutual respect and understanding.’ From this statement, South Africa is not opposed to the making of warmer and stronger ties with the United States, for as long as the relationship is predicated on mutual respect, for as long as the understanding is located on horizontal, and not on vertical, considerations. Thus, South Africa has sent a strong message of caution to Donald Trump while Nigeria is playing with diplomacy of words without any well-articulated policy stand. Nigeria comments generally on many international questions but keeps silent on them in terms of policy stand and direction. The same is true at the level of domestic governance. In this regard, let us look at the visible societal indiscipline and then put it in the context of Pastor Bakare’s ‘Deliberate Sinful Silence.’ Deliberate Sinful Silence cuts across political governance, both at the official level of government, on the one hand, and officious and unofficial levels of the people, on the other. The Deliberate Sinful Silence is built on the promotion of culture of corruption by essentially acting contrary to acceptable behaviour and seeking an outcome that would not have been enabled under normal circumstance. An act of corruption is necessarily an expression of dishonesty. An act of dishonesty is a taint on integrity. A taint on integrity not only affects credibility, but also impedes progress in various ramifications. The experience of the Nigerian Institute of International Affairs (NIIA), which is not based on hearsay, provides a good illustration of Pastor Bakare’s ‘Deliberate Sinful Silence.’ Under the General Ike Omar Nwachukwu-led Governing Council of the NIIA, 2012-2015, governance was, at best, built on deliberate sinful silence. For instance, attention of Council was drawn to the act of serious misconduct of the Director of Administration and Finance, Ms Agatha Elochi Ude, who not only removed queries issued by various Directors-General of the NIIA from her classified files, but also changed some promotion examination results in favour of some staff. I referred the matter to the Governing Council which asked the Appointment and Promotion Sub-Committee of the Council, of which I was the statutory chairman to look at my complaint. Being the complainant, I was asked not to chair the meeting, which was perfectly in order. However, the Council decided that the matter had been resolved on the basis of the report of the sub-committee that Ms Agatha Ude, the Director, had regretted her action and apologised in my absence, which I . This was a good manifestation of a deliberate sinful silence over an ‘act of serious misconduct.’
When the Ike Nwachukwu-led Council became deeply engaged in Deliberate Sinful Silence over the foregoing, and eventually left office a panel of inquiry into the matter, comprising representatives from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Public Service Commission, Office of the Head of Service of the Federation, Department of State Services, etc, was set up. It met and gave its report. Copies of the report were sent to all institutions represented at the meeting. The report seriously indicted all the petitioners and all those accused of acts of serious misconduct. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs kept quiet over the matter. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation by then also kept quiet. Is this not a case of Deliberate Sinful Silence? In an attempt to get two research staff promoted to the professorial cadre, contrary to the tradition of the NIIA, the Ike Nwachukwu-led Governing Council not only compelled me not to send their papers to international assessors, but also dictated the contents of the letter to be sent to the Nigerian assessors under the pretext that I had not followed the regulations properly, but which they knew was not true. In fact, one of the Council members made a telephone call to one of the assessors. Only one of the two candidates qualified to be promoted on the basis of NIIA conditions. However, the two candidates were promoted. Again, what is this if it is not corruption and another Deliberate Sinful Silence over societal indiscipline? In this regard too, the Director of Research and Studies, Professor Ogaba Danjuma Oche, revealed the names of the would-be assessors to the professorial candidates, a practice that had never been heard of in the NIIA. Professorial assessments are always very discreetly done. The tradition was brought to disrepute. In fact, the Ike Nwachukwu Governing Council extended its governance to the day-to-day management of the Institute and control of assessors. Besides, one of the candidates, like many other staff in the Administration Department, also had multiple dates of birth. All these cases were brought to the attention of both the Governing Council and the then Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ambassador Bulus Lolo, in the capacity of the Ministry as the Supervisory Authority. However, they were all covered up. What the Ike-Nwachukwu-led Council was most interested in, was money and money, and unsubstantiated non-compliance with due processes in the building of a new International Conference Centre at the NIIA. In fact, during the twelve months of construction of the conference centre, the Chairman of Council never visited the construction site, and yet, his Council is said to be governing the NIIA. I asked for independent inquiry into the international conference project to determine if, for whatever reason and whatever manner, I had offended the law, particularly in terms of diversion of public funds and corruption, but no response. It was again a Deliberate Sinful Silence over it but the Ike Nwachukwu-led Council was quick in writing a secret report of misinformation to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I was never bothered, since the main grievance of the Council was its alleged non-involvement in the award of the contract for the construction of the new International Conference Centre. Additionally, the Council easily forgot that truth is constant, that it could only be manipulated but could not be destroyed. Therefore time will tell the truth and truth will determine the parameters and scope of shame to be shared. More interestingly, three Research Fellows consistently petitioned against me which I fully appreciated as a good instrument in public administration. With this in mind, to their twelve-page petition, I provided more than seventy pages of explanation and rationalisations as to the non-tenability of their petitions to the Council. The outcome was Deliberate Sinful Silence. In the same vein, in reply to the Council’s rejection of Government’s monetisation policy on housing and introduction of 8% of salary as monthly rent for official quarters, I asked the Council how I should be paying N90,000 per month and another researcher would be paying N12,000 per month for the same four-bedroom flat, with a boys quarters en suite and two parking slots, in the same location, with the same conditions of service and work on Idejo street, Victoria Island? Where was the justice and fairness? The Ike Nwachukwu-led Council had no good answer. Again, what was the reaction of the Council to the petition and the reply? It was simply, ‘noted.’ The Council could not ascertain who was wrong or right. The veracity of allegations could not be ascertained. What is this again, if it is not a manifestation of a Deliberate Sinful Silence over injustice? If Pastor Tunde Bakare is complaining about the deliberate sinful silence of the Federal Government, what about the lackadaisical disposition of the people? How should we describe that of the Ike Nwachukwu-led Governing Council, especially in light of the high ranking status of its membership? And perhaps most interestingly, many notable people, who were told about the foregoing issues, began to doubt my integrity, but without investigation of the truth. Some people showed sympathy to an extent but eventually kept silent over the matters, which are not personal but national and which are quite detrimental to good governance. Efforts are being made to kill the matter but the NIIA case cannot, and should not, be dumped on the altar of Deliberate Sinful Silence.
At the level of the generality of the people of Nigeria, the Deliberate Sinful Silence is also well pronounced. For instance, there is the remissness of the people vis-à-vis road traffic indiscipline: why should motor cyclists be allowed to drive against the traffic in Lagos, or in Abuja and even in any part of Nigeria, and for that matter, with the assistance of the police? Rather than challenge and fight indiscipline, most Nigerians prefer to keep silent and say ‘let the devil go or that you cannot alone fight Nigeria’s problems. Why is the government silent over this type of societal indiscipline? The Federal Government took financial deposits from many Nigerians, including me, in 1994, for possible allocation of a three-bedroom detached bungalow and other houses. For over 23 years now, no house is built, no refund is made. It is complete silence over it. Is this not a Deliberate Sinful Silence over it on the part of the people and particularly on the part of government? What about the domains of electricity distribution and telecommunications? How are Nigerians treated and how has Government been responding to complaints? Do public institutions have the culture of either promptly or even responding to public letters of inquiry or complaints sent to them? Who is not aware about budget padding in the National Assembly but which public has interest in it and is complaining? How are plots of land allocated by the FCT authorities? I applied for land in Abuja in my capacity as a Nigerian by ius sanguinis. Why have I not been given for over ten years either in Abuja and even in Lagos State where I paid for land under military Governor Buba Marwa and up till this time, no official particulars have been given as at January 2018? Must I lobby, settle the Nigerian way for what I am entitled to? Never!!! True enough, it has become necessary for Nigerians to stop deceiving themselves even if the Government may be deceiving them. There is no disputing the fact that Pastor Bakare’s ‘Deliberate Sinful Silence’ and ‘Department of Sinful Silence’ is in the blood stream of most, if not all, Nigerians. The virus is not peculiar to President Muhammadu Buhari alone, as an individual, or as a government. Many people who took interest in fighting societal ills along with me, for reasons I do not understand, have now also deliberately engaged in sinful silence. This is why I now begin to think that honesty does not pay in Nigeria, that dint of hard work in order to grow and unite Nigeria is also a waste of time, and that engagement in acts of patriotism is an offence and, therefore, one needs to be very cautious in engaging in it in contemporary Nigeria. The plain truth about the killings in Benue State is clear; the killers are not true herdsmen by career. They may be of Fulani, Yoruba, Ibo, or Hausa ethnic stock, this does not matter. What matters is that the killers are boko haramists working within the framework of an international terrorist agenda to Islamise or disintegrate Nigeria. Consequently, pretending that the killing of fellow Nigerians by herdsmen, who are technologically more empowered and sophisticated enough to acquire weapons more powerful than those in possession of the security agents, and also operating in many countries of the Sahel and ECOWAS region, is not for the purposes of Islamising Nigeria cannot but be the crescendo of self-deceit and, of course, that of Deliberate Sinful Silence as observed by Pastor Tunde Bakare.