Under Teacher’s diary Funmi Ogundare The City of Knowledge Academy, Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State is set to host the maiden edition of primary schools ICT competition, designed to enable pupils communicate effectively using technology. The programme, which will hold on January 25 at the school premises, will attract primary schools pupils between the ages of nine and 11, drawn from 16 schools across the country, who will be tested on creativity, critical thinking, collaboration and communication by an external assessor. The Head of School, Mrs. Abiola Lamikanra, who briefed journalists recently in Ogun State, said the participating schools who have already registered online via the school website, have been sent a curriculum which will encourage them to have a greater depth of teaching in ICT. “We want to ensure that all technology aids will be deployed,” she said, adding that since the establishment of the school in 2013, it deployed technology to enhance teaching and learning. “We ensured that all the children have their net books and our classrooms are interactive. The teachers use them extensively to bring the world to the classrooms, our network is very strong and we operate almost a paperless community.” She added that more than 60 per cent of its students are Microsoft certified and are good in robotics. The Vice-Principal Academics, Mr. Emmanuel Kolapo, who corroborated Lamikanra, said the objective of the competition is to ascertain what the pupils can do on the computer, as part of the school’s plan to develop technological education and catch them young. “So far, we have been teaching our students how to use technology. At the end of this term, we will be using computers to conduct examinations. As a result of our activities, we are now Microsoft certified for using technology properly. We are preparing the students for real world change powered by technology. We also encourage the teachers to apply technology to enhance teaching and learning.” Prizes such as play station four, iPad and laptop computer will be given to winners who emerge first, second and third positions, respectively.