Guaranty Trust Bank Plc (GTBank) has won the award for ‘Bank of the Year Nigeria,’ for the second year in a row.
The bank won the award at The Banker’s Bank of the Year Awards. GTBank Sierra Leone Limited, a subsidiary of GTBank was also recognised as the ‘Bank of the Year Sierra Leone’ at the event, which held in London.
The Banker, a publication of the Financial Times, is one of the world’s leading monthly journals of records for the banking Industry, with over 90 years expertise in publishing developments in the banking industry in Africa and on the global scale. The Magazine’s Bank of the Year Awards celebrates leading financial institutions within the global banking sector who are setting new industry standards and driving innovation in financial services and customer experience. Receiving the award on behalf of the bank, the Managing Director/CEO, GTBank, Segun Agbaje said: “We are honoured to be recognised as the 2018 Bank of the Year in Nigeria and Sierra Leone. “These awards serve as further motivation for us as we continue to go beyond traditional banking services by creating innovative digital services that are less about us as bank and more about our customers and how we empower them with everything that they need to better their lives.” He further stated that “Our vision has always been to create an oasis in the financial services industry that leads, not only in earnings and returns on equity, but also in maintaining world class corporate governance standards and pushing the bounds in service delivery and customer experience. “These awards reflect our sustained commitment towards this vision, which we will continue to pursue, driven by our passion for excellence and guided by our founding values of hard work, discipline and integrity.” GTBank is widely regarded by industry watchers as a trailblaser due to its many innovations in digital and financial services.
Recently, the bank launched Habari, Nigeria’s largest platform for music, shopping and lifestyle content and the first mobile platform created by a financial institution in the country that focuses on enabling people’s needs and lifestyle rather than providing regular banking products.