Benjamin Nworie in Abakaliki Ebonyi All Progressives Youth Vanguard has called on the National Chairman of the party, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun to proceed on immediate resignation for allegedly sabotaging the efforts of the Asiwaju Bola Tinubu-led reconciliation committee. In a statement, the National Leader of the group, Engr. Frank Ngwu noted that Tinubu’s letter to the National chairman has vindicated the earlier concerns of the group that Oyegun’s activities have created factional crises in most state chapters of the party. Ngwu blamed Oyegun for allegedly sabotaging the reconciliation efforts of the former Lagos state especially as the electioneering approaches. He described as undemocratic the way and manner the national chairman has allegedly flouted court orders which restrained him from tempering with the 2014 state congress that produced Chief Ben Nwobasi as the state chairman of the party. The group further alleged that Oyegun was at the epicenter of the leadership crisis which has bedeviled the party through the issuance of inconsistent directive which had further deepened the crisis in the state chapter of the party. Ngwu said: “We make bold to state categorically that our national chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun is behind the leadership crisis in Ebonyi state chapter of the APC through inconsistent issuance of directive. When some moneybags visited him, he authored a letter on February 23, 2017 appointing one Eze Nwachukwu as the state acting Chairman. When contempt proceeding was served on him, he quickly authorised another letter on April 25 withdrawing his initial letter. “And despite his letter of withdrawal, he is still relating with Nwachukwu Eze as the state Chairman. For instance, during the courtesy visit to the Vice president, Yemi Osinbajo by all the state chairmen of the party, Oyegun cleared Nwachukwu instead of Ben Nwobasi who is the authentic chairman of the party”. “We can allow such character to come and cause mayhem in the state because of his double standard. We want him to resolve the crisis before coming to Ebonyi state otherwise we will resist him from stepping his foot on Ebonyi soil. His leadership incompetence has further exacerbated the crisis in our state chapter of APC and this has endangered the strength of our party in the state”, the group asserted.