Hammed Shittu in Ilorin The Vice-Chancellor of the University of Ilorin, Professor Sulyman Age Abdulkareem ‎has solicited the support of relevant international organisations to partner the institution in all its endeavours to expose the students’ talents to the world. This, he said would assist the students to advance their course and fully achieve their potential and increase the internally generated revenue of the university. Abdulkareem made the call in Ilorin during the programme, ’FotoClique’ titled ‘The Convergence, a photography exhibition, organised by the Mass Communications Department of the university. Represented by Professor Gabriel Olatunji, the vice-chancellor, who commended the ingenuity of the students as displayed in the various multi-talented photo displays, said nothing could be more rewarding than having international exposure for the students’ handiwork. The organiser of the event and Photo Journalism lecturer in the Dr. Khadijat Kadiri recalled her expertise and notable rewards her works attracted last year. Kadiri, who said she was inspired by the experience of last year, added that she was motivated this year with the theme. “Photos are amazing sources of communication. They cannot but communicate. This led us to the theme of this edition of the exhibition ‘The Convergence’. Being the theme for this year’s exhibition would try to efficiently deliver as the melting points of pictorial ideas, themes and discourse, taking us through various lanes, deep within our anxious minds” “Once again, photography shall take the responsibilities of bridging the ‎distance between the past and the present by presenting and creating a scene that would represent what we have hallucinated. This would be a window through which you can peep and see what beauties nature behold,” she said. The Head of Department, Dr. Saidat Abdulbaqi, who said the department trains students to realise their potential, extolled the virtues of the convener, which she stressed is worthy of emulation. “We are in the world of photography, nobody can do without it now, even inside the heavy human and vehicle traffic, people still take selfies.” ‎