Notable football actors led by the legendary 1978 Challenge Cup winning coach, Alabi Aisien and Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, will highlight the relaunch of a rebranded, Bendel Insurance FC in Benin City today. Also expected is the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) President, Amaju Melvin Pinnick, and Fanny Amu, coach of the Golden Eaglets that won the 1993 Under-17 World Cup in Japan. Also expected at the relaunch is foremost female football proprietress and member of the Federal House of Representatives, Hon Ayo Omidiran; LMC Chairman, Shehu Dikko; and Former Super Eagles players who are indigenes of Edo like; Osaze Odemwingie, Yakubu Ayegbeni and Julius Aghahowa are also listed to be in attendance. Another Edo indigene also expected at the event include Coach Sebastian Brodericks-Imasuen, who led the 1985 Golden Eaglets to win then Under-16 World Cup in China. Members of the National Assembly from Edo State and those in the State House of Assembly are also expected at the occasion. A Press statement from the Government House in Benin City signed by the Chief Press Secretary to Edo State Deputy Governor, Ebomhiana Musa, said the technical crew headed by Monday Odigie as Manager, will be assisted by Baldwin Bazuaye as the Chief Coach with Greg Ikhenoba as Assistant Coach. According to him “highly experienced players have been signed on by the club management to complement the new technical crew in preparation for the 2018 football season which promises to be exciting for football enthusiasts.’’ Edo State Deputy Governor, Rt Hon Philip Shaibu is chairman of the high-powered committee charged with the responsibility of repositioning sports in the state. According to Shaibu, “with the calibre of players we have on board coupled with the technical crew, we have no doubt that Bendel Insurance FC is out to thrill football lovers with good play and bring back the old glory associated with the club. “Ultimately, they will move to the Premier League which we believe they rightful belong with the kind of investment we have put into it aside the support from corporate bodies,” stressed the deputy governor. He added that the technical crew has been given a free hand to scout for the best players across the country, adding that “the era of sending notes to coaches insisting on some players were over.” Edo State Government, Mr. Godwin Obaseki assisted by his immediate predecessor in office, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole is expected to unveil the rebranded club on in the banquet hall of Government House in Benin. “It’s going to be a complete package, a brand new technical crew, a brand new set of players, a brand new coastal bus and a brand new logo and set of kits,” Shaibu assured stakeholders in Edo football.