Emmanuel Addeh in Yenagoa
The Department of State Service (DSS) and the Bayelsa State Government have met with stakeholders over the four-month blackout in the state to avert a rash of protests planned by some youths as a result of the non-availability of electricity in the state. THISDAY learnt that the DSS was taking the issue as a security matter even as tension begins to build in the state coupled with the belief in government circles that the continuing power failure could lead to an increase in the crime rate. Already, officials of the Port Harcourt Distribution Company have been summoned to explain why the state has been starved for months which the authorities believe could have severe implications.
During the meeting which held in Yenagoa in the office of the Deputy Governor, Rear Admiral John Jonah (rtd.), top officials of the distribution company, based in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, the Deputy Governor, the Commissioner for Power, Chief Partner Ogbolo, Ministry of Power officials as well as top officers of the DSS were in attendance. Ogbolo, who confirmed the meeting, said the officials were summoned in order to get the true picture of the situation and avert what could be a security breach in the state. “We took up the matter seriously by summoning all the officials of the distribution company in Port Harcourt including the General Manager, Transmission, who is the person that oversees all the functions in transmission.
“The meeting was called at the instance of the deputy governor, Jonah. We met in his office. During our meeting, we asked them to explain vividly the circumstances surrounding the epileptic supply in the state. “Their contention has been that they had inadequacies arising from funding and that they had slim resources and that they did not have enough funds to take care of power being generated from the generating system. “And for that reason, the matter was presented to Governor Seriake Dickson. The governor has approved the sum N50m to be paid to the distribution company so that they can resume work. I think that is one of the key areas,” Ogbolo said.