Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi Nomadic Head Teachers and Teachers have been called upon to be peace builders in the nomadic communities of the country. The Executive Secretary of the National Commission for Nomadic Education (NCNE) Prof. Bashir Haruna Usman gave the counseling during the opening ceremony of a four-day National Teachers training workshop for Nomadic School Head Teachers/Teachers in the North-east zone held at Zaranda Hotel, Bauchi on Saturday, supported by Office of the Special Adviser to the President on SDGs. He said, “a lot of issues are involved in our communities that resulted in to clash, killing, rustling, grazing, ranching, so as teachers we have to be the agents that will build peace among the communities. “No one would like to see human being killed; we have to counsel the children, parents, leaders in the communities on the need for peace building. We have seen enough of these senseless killings. It’s our responsibility to step down what we learn at the training workshop to other teachers that are not here with us to achieved the goals we are aiming at.” The Executive Secretary also reminded the teachers that education serves as the springboard for social and economic change, and all who have mediated on the art of governing mankind have been convinced that the fate of people depends on the education of the youth. Earlier Speaking, the acting Director Department Development of NCNE, Dr. Rose Nwaji said the training is organised to reinforce the earlier teacher training workshops conducted over the years and to redress the mounting educational problems identified in the teaching and learning. The objectives of the training, according to Nwaji, include developed knowledge and competence on effective use of curriculum guide, which equipped participants with techniques of proper record keeping and acquainted them with issues relating to environment, culture and the target group. In his remarks, Bauchi state Governor Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar, represented by Permanent Secretary Ministry of Education, Alhaji Nasiru Yelwa commended the commission for organising the training. “It is timely to organised such teachers training”, he said. Abubakar said the priority of his administration on education is to keep organising training and retraining for teachers to boost the education system in the state.