By Obinna Chima The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele at the weekend reiterated the central bank’s commitment to development of initiatives that would continue to support the growth of the economy. Emefiele made the pledge when he received the ‘2017 Silverbird Special Achievement Award,’ conferred on him by the Silverbird Group in Lagos. Receiving the award, the CBN Governor who was accompanied to the event by the Deputy Governor, Financial System Stability, CBN, Dr. Okwu Nnanna and some directors and senior officials of the Bank, dedicated the  award to the staff of the CBN. “This award is dedicated to all the hardworking colleagues that I have at the CBN. They have toiled and worked very hard in spite of the challenges that confronted us. “I want to assure all of you that with this award, we are further spurred to work harder to continue to deliver on our mandate for the good of Nigeria as well as Nigerians,” he added. The organisers of the event, among others, listed the success recorded with the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme, financial system stability as well as the ability to halt the currency crisis the country faced about two years ago, as some of the factors that qualified Emefiele for the award. Emefiele recently put the total amount of money disbursed under the Anchor Borrower’s Programme (ABP) in partnership with state governments and private sector group since the commencement of the programme, at N55.526 billion to over 250,000 farmers. These set of farmers, according to the CBN Governor, have cultivated almost 300,000 hectares of farmland for rice, wheat, maize, cotton, soybeans, cassava, etc. He said: “As you may all know, the ABP is designed to support small holder farmers by providing them with the requisite training, tools and funds at single digit interest rates, which will enable improved cultivation of key agricultural items such as maize, soybeans, rice, cotton and wheat. The programme also provides a ready market for farmers by linking them with credible off-takers and processors of their produce.” 