Yes, his heart is like a singing bird whose nest is in a watered shoot; his heart is like an apple-tree whose boughs are bent with thickset fruit; his heart is like a rainbow shell that paddles in a halcyon sea; and his heart is gladder than all these because he lives to be 80. Oba Adedapo Tejuoso must be a fulfilled man. There is no gainsaying he lives a charmed life. Unlike too many of his peers, he recorded remarkable feats in his heydays thus inciting ceaseless tributes to his citizenship of humanity. Expectedly, Oba Adedapo Adewale Tejuoso celebrated his 80th birthday at the much-talked about Obasanjo Presidential Library Complex, Abeokuta some days ago. Proceedings began with a Thanksgiving Service, where there was a session of soul-lifting songs, choruses and prayers for the celebrant. Pastor Tunde Bakare delivered the sermon, commending the celebrant for his indefatigable work in the vineyard of the Lord despite his traditional responsibilities and status in the society. There was a lively cake cutting session officiated by Pastor Ituah Ighodalo. Joined by his beautiful wives and celebrated Nigerians. The obviously elated celebrant cut his cake after the entire congregation spelt the word: “Jesus Christ”. Later, there was a first-rate reception at a wonderfully decorated marquee, within the same complex. Evangelist Ebenezer Obey and Shina Peters thrilled the guests. We saw Senator Ita Enang, representing President Muhammad Buhari, Senator Babafemi Ojodu, representing Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, Senate President, Bukola Saraki, who led 20 other Senators to the event in support of their colleague, Senator Lanre Tejuoso, eldest son of the Celebrant, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, Ogun State Deputy Governor, Chief (Mrs.) Yetunde Onanuga, the Otunba Adekunle Ojora and wife, Erelu Ojuolape, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, Otunba Bimbola Ashiru, Alake of Egbaland, HRM Oba Adedotun Gbadebo, Chief Rasak Okoya and wife, Chief (Mrs.) Shade Okoya, Hon. Femi Gbajamila, Prince Bola Ajibola, Prince Tokunbo Sijuwade, Chief Demola Seriki, Pastor Ayo Oritsejafor, Pastor Tunde Bakare, Pastor Ituah Ighodalo, Mr. Foluso Adeagbo, Mr. Kodjo Williams, Dr. Kweku Tandoh, Yomi Badejo-Okunsanya and wife, Oyinkan.