Head Coach of the U20 Boys’ National Team, Paul Aigbogun has called to camp 28 players as the seven –time African champions begin preparations for the qualifying series for 2019 Africa U20 Cup of Nations.
Enyimba FC’s Ikouwem Udoh, who won the Young Player of the Year award at this week’s AITEO-NFF Football Awards, has been called alongside Super Eagles B team –mates Peter Eneji and Nur Muhammed, as well as Nasarawa United’s Douglas Achiv, Akwa United’s Adesina Gata and Kano Pillars’ fleet –footed midfielder Alhassan Ibrahim.
Kano Pillars’ Nazifi Yahaya and MFM FC’s goalkeeper Ospino Egbe are also invited. All invited players are to arrive at the Serob Legacy Hotel, Wuye, Abuja between February 25 and 26th with their international passports, birth certificates and training kits.
The 2019 Africa U20 Cup of Nations will be staged in Niger Republic.
Nigeria swept the African U20 titles in 1983, 1985, 1987, 1989, 2005, 2011 and 2015, and won silver medals at the FIFA U20 World Cup in 1989 and 2005, after finishing third in the old USSR in 1985. Lady Captain’s Inaugural Golf Tournament tee-off
The ancient city of Benin will be agog for another week of golfing action as the Benin Club Golf Section 2018 Lady Captain’s Inaugural Golf Tournament tee-off on Sunday.
The event is organised by the club in collaboration with the captain of the lady division is anticipated to attract about 100 men and ladies golfers to the famous Benin club golf course, Benin City.
Speaking on the tournament, the lady captain, Juliet Ugiagbe optimistic of large turnout of golfers from Ibori Country and Golf Club, Asaba, Sapele Club, University of Benin Teaching Hospital golf club, Shell golf club, Ogunnu and many others noted that the tournament would leave up to the golfers expectation. Also, the lady captain, wife of the former president of Benin Club stated that invitations have been sent across to various golf clubs in the South-South and beyond to turn out in large numbers. The course is in order and we are waiting for the ladies to come and prove themselves despite that it would be holding on Sunday.
She said “It will be quite reasonable and exciting since golfers from Benin and others are coming from neighbouring states.” There would be lots of prizes and trophies for those that distinguished themselves at the event in various categories such as men’s and ladies, men veterans and super veterans categories for men while the ladies veteran would hold as well. The biggest prize will go to ladies since it is their day. “Our men golfers have always been our financial backbone, though this is inaugural event but we believed so much on the contributions of our men whenever ladies are hosting event in the club. They have always been wonderful and passionate in playing during ladies tournament.”