President of the Nigeria Football Federation, Mr. Amaju Melvin Pinnick on Tuesday inaugurated the Federation’s newly –composed Audit Committee and the Technical Study Group at the NFF Secretariat, Abuja, declaring them “critical panels that have much to contribute to Nigerian Football’s development.” The NFF supremo poured encomiums on Executive Committee member, Otunba Sunday Dele-Ajayi, who heads the Audit Committee and will celebrate his 60thbirthday next week, saying “Otunba is a fit and proper person for the role given his huge experience in the financial sector and his calm, collected and matured disposition. “The Audit Committee will complement the efforts of our external auditors, PriceWaterHouse Coopers and much is expected of them.” Pinnick also declared that the Technical Study Group would function as a committee, collating, analysing and putting at the disposal of the Federation, data and new thinking that can enhance the rapid development of the Nigeria game. “The Chairman, Alhaji Abba Yola needs no introduction. He is someone who has seen it all in sports administration and we thank him immensely for accepting to serve Nigerian Football in this capacity. In due course, members of the Technical Study Group will be attached to the various National Teams to impact on those teams.” Otunba Dele-Ajayi promised that his committee would work in tandem with the external auditors to enhance even further the reliability of NFF’s financial records, for the good of the game. He thanked the NFF for the opportunity given to the members to serve. On his part, Yola said: “I commend the NFF for coming up with a panel like the Technical Study Group. We will work as a group and with the Technical Committee, and in the interest of all the National Teams, including the U13.” NFF General Secretary, Dr. Mohammed Sanusi urged the committees to route their reports through the proper channels without making public their recommendations, while also thanking them for accepting to serve the nation. Also at the occasion were NFF Deputy General Secretary, Dr. Emmanuel Ikpeme; Mr. Taribo West (Vice Chairman, TSG); Mr. James Peters (Member, TSG); Coach Bitrus Bewarang (Technical Director); Ademola Olajire (Director of Communications); Suleiman Tegina (Deputy Director, Audit) and; Tunde Aderibigbe (Head of Protocol). Audit Committee: Sunday Dele-Ajayi (Chairman); Mohammed Alkali (Vice Chairman); Shariff Abdullahi (Member); Abubakar Ladan (Member); Yahuza Adamu (Member); Ayodeji Alabi (Member); Ezra Godit (Member); Ogheneochuko Ambakederemo (Member); Imama Tukur (Member); Isa Matori (Member); Suleiman Tegina (Secretary) Technical Study Group: Abba Yola (Chairman); Taribo West (Vice Chairman); Bernard Ogbe (Member); Augustine ‘Jay Jay’ Okocha (Member); Tijjani Babangida (Member); Victor Agali (Member); Tunde Adelakun (Member); Adegoke Adelabu (Member); James Peters (Member); Clement Nwankpa (Member); Ibikunle Solaja (Member); Yusuf Dauda (Member); Ubale Yusuf (Member); Sule Gwagwarja (Member); Godwin Enakhena (Member); Mike Idoko (Member); Chukwumah Ubah (Member); Bitrus Bewarang (Secretary)