Technical Adviser of Rangers International F.C of Enugu, Coach Olugbenga Ogunbote, has called for live coverage of Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) matches to curb hooliganism. Ogunbote made this call in Enugu, thursday during an interactive session with Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN) Enugu State chapter. “Nigerian league has come of age and there are many people who cannot afford the time and money to watch their clubs regularly at stadiums. It will make much sense if each match of the league will be given live broadcast for people to watch their clubs for easy judgment on their performances. “Viewing matches on air will equally reduce the work load of the league organisers as all the rules and regulations of the game will be observed by the participants,” said the much travelled gaffer. The coach also expressed joy on Rangers’ players performance so far in the season stressing that the players have been able to withstand the storm of not starting the league on a bright note. Speaking on the club’s established culture of wining matches at home with one goal margin, Ogunbote said that three points is as important as goals at this stage of the league. “We may not understand the important of these lone goals in a match at home until the end of the season. Though, we are working audaciously to ensure that we win each match but when the goals come in numbers, the club will appreciate,” Ogunbote said. The vastly experienced and much travelled tactician further said that Rangers will soon reclaim its rightful position on the NPFL log. On goalkeeping department, the tactician noted that Rangers has four professional goalkeepers in its ranks and that the essence is for the club to stand tall in all situations. “At times, some players may be called up for national assignment and as the league progresses other goalkeepers will have their chances. Femi Thomas claimed the goal post for now and tomorrow, Nana Bonsu may take over and it will extend to others and what we need is understanding and patience,” he said. In his acknowledgement, the Enugu SWAN Chairman who also doubles as Rangers’ Media Officer, Norbert Okolie, thanked Ogunbote for making out time to interact with sportswriters in the state. He urged the coach to always do so in appreciation of SWAN contribution to the club while calling on his members to always paint the club in good light with constructive criticisms.