Damilola Oyedele in Abuja The Senate on Tuesday condemned the recent religious attacks in Kaduna State where at least seven persons were reportedly killed. It expressed worry at the continuous killings in different parts of the country. Christians and Muslim youths in Kasuwan Magani village, Kajuru Local Government Area of Kaduna State had on Monday unleashed violence on each other, burning houses and other belongings. Senator Shehu Sani (Kaduna APC), speaking at the plenary, described the incident as unfortunate and lamented that Nigerians continue to experience violence in different forms. “This country is accepting the reality that violence is becoming a way of life. It is so unfortunate that every day we wake up to killings, kidnappings and series of violence that shakes the stability and unity of this country in every aspect,” he said. Sani said Nigeria cannot achieve any meaningful progress without peace and unity, adding that national cohesion can only be possible if Nigerians are determined to live in harmony.
“I enjoin this Senate to sympathise with us in Kaduna State and identify with us in this trying moment and in any possible way, commend the security agencies for the prompt response in bringing an end to the mayhem. We must live together as Muslims and Christians, as people from different ethno-religious background,” Sani added. Presiding, Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, expressed condolences to those affected by the attack, adding that the religious slant to the attack makes it more worrisome. “It is one incident too many. It is something we need to avoid, any conflict that would have religious bias because that would be the fastest way to liquidate this country. As leaders, we understand that leadership comes with its responsibility. It is our job to keep preaching to those who are leading through our actions and our words that we belong to one government, one destiny and ultimately we are answerable to our creator,” Ekweremadu added. “The fact that someone is a Muslim or Christian does not mean that they hate each other. I am not aware of any religion that preaches hate or killing. It is the way we do our things here that promotes that. We are talking about hate speeches. I think the worst is even hate actions. If we treat ourselves as brothers and sisters, I am sure those who are following us we do exactly the same thing,” Ekweremadu added.