LAGOS 2018 NWFL CHAMPIONS SHIELD They were the best teams in the country’s women football last season. Rivers United and Nasarawa Amazons dismissed all the pretenders in the 2017 season to win the biggest laurels in Nigerian women football and now it is time to decide who is the first among equals. Feelers from both camps indicate that the teams are ready to rumble in the game described by their coaches as the ‘Festival of Queens.’ Looking forward to an entertaining March 4 evening, Rivers Angels Manager, Edwin Okon and his Nasarawa Amazons counterpart, Chris Danjuma agree that the Nigeria Women Football League (NWFL) Champions Shield will be a feast of the finest in women football as they represent the very best teams in the land. The harbinger of the new women football league season, as well as the premiere of the best of the best will hold at the Soccer Temple, Agege Stadium in Lagos. The NWFL Champions Shield maiden edition is sponsored and supported by Lagos State government, whose Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode is expected to grace the occasion. Nasarawa Amazons defeated Rivers Angels to win the NWFL Super Four Championship last year, but Okon says he is not thinking of revenge, “but a good game that will go a long way to boost the image of the women league.
“I must thank the NWFL leadership under Aisha Falode for their persistent drive for new innovations.
“I must also thank Lagos State government for their interest and support for a worthy project like the NWFL Champions Shield. “It’s the first of its kind, we have had Super 6, Super 4 as well and I know it’s a matter of time for the huge investment in women football to be clear to all to behold. Nasarawa Amazons versus Rivers Angels NWFL Champions Shield clash is a good one between mutual friends and sisters.” “We at Rivers Angels want to use the occasion to show the stuff and new image of a winning team.”
Danjuma, who has overseen the ascendance of Nasarawa Amazons to the top of Nigerian women football in recent years, says his side is coming to Lagos to consolidate on the recent gains as well as rewrite history at the maiden NWFL Champions Shield. “We have been meeting Rivers Angels at the highest level of football and in most cases the Port Harcourt side have emerged victorious. “We have something different to prove this time around using the NWFL Champions Shield platform in Lagos. We want to rewrite the history of the best club side in Nigeria. We want to prove ourselves as the Nigerian champions and to prove to the whole world that our victory at the NWPL Super 4 in Benin City was not a fluke but well-deserved.”
This is the first meeting of the two sides since Nasarawa Amazons almost turned the Jewel of Rivers to ‘ball girls’ at the 2017 NWPL Super 4 at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium in Benin City.