Obinna Chima Access Bank Plc has emerged winner of the best ‘Commercial Banking Capabilities’ award by Euromoney, a leading global financial publication. The prestigious award was presented to the bank’s Group Managing Director/CEO, Mr. Herbert Wigwe, at the Euromoney Private Banking Awards 2018, which held at the Landmark in Marylebone, London on Thursday. The awards are the most prestigious in the growing area of wealth management and cover over 60 countries each year, as well as global and regional awards. Euromoney in its recently released results of the annual Private Banking and Wealth Management Survey noted that Access Bank’s Commercial Banking Capabilities showed significant improvement within the past year. The Award is given to honour firms that have proven to be leading providers of exceptional commercial banking services and have also shown an outstanding contribution to the banking sector. The annual Private Banking and Wealth Management Survey is the industry’s leading barometer of the world’s best service and product providers to the world’s wealthy. The survey provides a qualitative review of the best services in private banking, by region and by areas of service. It is an informative guide for high net-worth individuals on the range of professional wealth management service providers that are available. The Commercial Banking category refers to the expertise the bank has to fulfil the business needs of clients and commitment to providing liquidity in all market conditions. Also, such a firm would have shown leadership in developing and integrating technology into its sales and business operations. Speaking at the presentation ceremony, Wigwe said: “This recognition highlights our commitment and dedication to serving our customers innovatively and putting them at the forefront of our business. “We want to say a big thank you to our customers for entrusting us with their businesses and we look forward to our continued partnerships in years to come. We provide bespoke services tailored to meet the needs of this segment including building a socially responsible business portfolio. This award is in recognition of our regional expertise as we continue to work towards being Africa’s gateway to the world.” Wigwe, according to a statement, assured customers and stakeholders of the financial institution that the bank would sustain this growth momentum while noting that the award is an honour for not just him but the entire workforce of Access Bank Plc and most especially, the commercial banking team.
“This is just the beginning of greater things to come for our Bank,” he concluded. Euromoney is a widely respected global financial media conglomerate that covers global banking, macroeconomics and capital markets, including debt and equity. It also runs a number of independent industry surveys that have become the benchmarks for excellence in various categories of banking and finance. Published every February, Euromoney’s Global Private Banking Survey provides a qualitative peer review of the best services in private banking, by region and by areas of service. Access Bank Plc is a full-service commercial Bank operating through a network of 383 branches and service outlets located in major centres across Nigeria, sub-Saharan Africa, and the United Kingdom with representative offices in China, Lebanon and India. Listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange in 1998, the Bank serves its various markets through four business segments: Personal, Business, Commercial and Corporate and Investment Banking. The bank has over 830,000 shareholders including several Nigerian and International Institutional Investors and has enjoyed what is arguably Africa’s most successful banking growth trajectory in the last 12 years ranking amongst Africa’s top 20 banks by total assets and capital in 2016. As part of its continued growth strategy, Access Bank is focused on mainstreaming sustainable business practices into its operations.