Omololu Ogunmade and Onyebuchi Ezigbo in Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari last night met with All Progressives Congress (APC) governors in the Presidential Villa, Abuja.
The meeting was the second of its kind in the last one week.
The president had met with APC governors in his Daura, country home last Friday. After the Daura meeting, Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha, told journalists that they were in Daura to commiserate with the president over the loss of his two relatives.
Earlier in the day yesterday, the governors who had attended Council of State meeting had opted to stay back to meet with the president. It was believed that the meeting was meant to persuade the president to show interest in 2019 presidential poll.
Meanwhile, the APC has set up a three-man committee headed by the Deputy National Chairman (South), Segun Oni, to embark on a fact-finding mission to Kaduna State where the governor and other key party stakeholders are engaged in a bitter power struggle. In a statement issued yesterday by its National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, APC said the committee is to identify the remote and immediate causes of the disagreement and the circumstance that led to the demolition of the house of Senator Hunkuyi. According to the statement, the Oni-led committee has one week to submit its report to the National Working Committee (NWC). The APC’s statement read: “After its executive session which held yesterday, the NWC of the party decided that the unfolding situation in Kaduna State is deeply regrettable and requests all parties in the disagreement to maintain utmost decorum and give opportunity for true reconciliation. “Consequently, the NWC has set up a three-man committee led by the Deputy National Chairman (South), Oni, to embark on a fact-finding mission to Kaduna State with a view to identifying the remote and immediate causes of the disagreement and the circumstance that led to the demolition of the house of Senator Hunkuyi. “The committee is to report back to the NWC within a week. Other members of the committee are the National Auditor, Chief George Moghalu, and National Woman Leader, Hajia Rahmatu Alliyu. In respect of the crisis in Kogi State, the APC said it was reaffirming that Alhaji Haddy Ametuo remains the chairman of the APC in the state until the appropriate organ of the party decides otherwise in accordance with the party’s constitution.