Hon. Justice Raliat Bukola Adebiyi has been elected Chairman of the Governing Board of Corona Schools’ Trust Council. Adebiyi was the immediate past Chairman of Corona Secondary School Board. The election took place during the 42nd annual general meeting of the council in December 2017. Adebiyi was appointed to the bench of the Lagos State judiciary in 2001. She is an alumna of Corona Schools, having attended Corona Primary School, Ikoyi. She attended Queen’s College, Yaba and proceeded to the University of Kent, Canterbury for her law degree followed by her Master’s degree in Law (LLM) from Queen Mary College, University of London, England in 1983. She joined the governing board of the trust council in 1992. It is worthy of note that membership of the board is by invitation of respected professionals with verifiable high level of integrity, and it is till date a voluntary non-remunerated service. Through the years and despite her demanding schedule, she has served on various committees of the board such as: Management Committee, Corona Transformation Committee, 50th Anniversary Committee Chairperson, Staff Awards and Recognition Panel, Lekki School Implementation Committee, Advancement Committee and Corona Secondary School Board. Justice Adebiyi is married to Adedeji Adebiyi and they are blessed with children and grandchildren. She takes over the baton of leadership from Mr. Adedotun Sulaiman, who retired from his position as Chairman, having served two terms as provided by the council’s constitution. Sulaiman, a renowned management consultant and expert in business and organisation strategy, led the reformation and re-positioning of Corona Schools for a defining phase of accelerated development, which occurred during his tenure between 2010 and 2017. Prior to his chairmanship, he served as the treasurer of the council between 1993 and 2009. Sulaiman has devoted more than 24 years of service to Corona Schools’ Trust Council. He joined the governing board of the trust council in 1993 and in 2006, became a member of the Board of Trustees till date. He is the Chairman of the Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria. He also serves on the board of many companies, including Cadbury Nigeria Plc. “The governing board under the leadership of Adebiyi now has the mantle to define the next phase of development for this inimitable organisation, Corona, trusted by generations of parents! We congratulate her and wish her a most successful tenure.”