By Bennett  Oghifo It was topflight affair at the unveiling, in Lagos, of Autofit Dunlop Express, an exquisite one-stop shop for auto maintenance and repairs. Autofit Dunlop Express, which is located off the pedestrian bridge at Alapere bus stop- Lagos bound side- on the Lagos-Ibadan road, is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities for tending vehicles and their patrons. According to the Managing Director, Autofit Dunlop Express, Ayo Oludemi, “Reaching this height had been a challenge but we kept going because we believe our customers deserve the best.” Oludemi praised God for making the launch a reality, saying “I must say Autofit started operation four years ago and we have rapidly grown to become a force to be reckoned with in the auto body industry because of our service delivery. “For those that know where we started from, you will agree with me that this is indeed a milestone from our humble beginning. Today, you are witnessing a change in direction, all along we had always thought of having a one-stop facility where our customers will have all their auto repair needs met in a world class facility that is conducive and comfortable. “I am proud that we have aligned ourselves with a world renowned brand, Sumitomo Rubber Industry, South Africa, owners of the Dunlop brand and promoted in Nigeria by Tyre Express Limited to change the experience of buying tyres.” He said in the coming weeks, they would complete “our children’s play area, which will have swing, slides and trampoline where children accompanying their parents can also enjoy themselves. “Furthermore, we also intend to have a skills acquisition centre for our youths, where they will equip themselves with various technical skills such as panel beating, spray painting, tyre and mechanical repair knowledge. “Our vision is to try and get the youths and eliminate the thoughts of going to countries like Libya in search of greener pastures. We want to make them believe there is hope in Nigeria and make them responsible citizens. Oludemi assured prospective customers that “we will not relent in providing them with the best services available, we welcome any suggestions or ideas that will make us serve you better.” He thanked their “technical partners, Garutech Ltd and Tyre Express Limited for their support, especially the General Manager Operations, Mr. Jair Uto-Dieu. Talking about the auto experience centre, Jair Uto-Dieu said, “Tyre Express Nigeria Limited is the Dunlop Distributor for Nigeria, adding that “Tyre is a grudge-purchase, you only buy tyres when you must buy tyres, it is difficult to find somebody happy and anxious to buy tyres like going to buy that dress, or suit or designer wristwatch.” Regardless, he said “We make buying of tyres a comfortable experience as much as possible. In Nigeria today, we need a place where you are sure you can get original tyres at the best price without any doubt.” The Autofit Dunlop Express centre, he said promises: Ultra-Modern Layout; clean and aesthetically appealing bays and lounge areas; comfortable rest rooms; branded products: “We offer the best quality products across the PCR, 4×4 & Truck range. Superior service guarantee: Our staff are knowledgeable, well trained and customer oriented. Trustworthiness:  We promise the best deal – fair, transparent pricing and standard product warranty on all brands that we sell. “As a company we aspire to be the preferred choice for tyre purchase. We endeavour to stock the complete range of tyres needed in the Nigerian market, while being competitively priced. Our trained staff will serve the needs of our customer with single-minded focus of “customer first”. “At Dunlop Express we offer efficient, affordable and quality tyre related services for all vehicle types. Services include Wheel Balancing, Wheel Alignment, Tyre Changing, Professional Tyre and Tube Repair, Caster Adjustment, Camber Adjustment, Batteries, Complete auto repair and body work.”