Iyobosa Uwugiaren in Abuja
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has called on the National Assembly to immediately commence full-scale investigation into the circumstances that led to the abduction of 110 schoolgirls in Dapchi, Yobe State. The major opposition party said the investigation had become imperative in the face of rising speculations and conspiracy theory in public space, fuelled by conflicting reports, adding that the investigation was important, following attempts at cover-up and disagreements among some government officials and agencies regarding the incident.
The party made the demand in a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, yesterday in Abuja.
Suspected Boko Haram terrorists recently attacked Government Girls Technical College, Dapchi and abducted 110 students. “The National Assembly must take a critical note of the allegation by Yobe State Governor, Ibrahim Geidam, who insists that the abduction was preceded by the withdrawal of troops safeguarding the troubled area,’’ PDP added.
“The governor is the chief security officer of the state. His statement cannot be taken lightly or even dismissed by just a wave of the hand by anybody or any government agency under any guise whatsoever.” The party also urged the National Assembly to investigate the conflicting reports that on the abduction.
The party continued: “Nigerians are indeed worried about the apparent deliberate design to hide the facts of this abduction and demand to know the truth. It is a common saying in Africa that thunder does not strike on the same spot twice. “We must not allow our national ambience to be filled with speculations from conspiracy theorists. Our lawmakers must therefore, in unravelling the matter, question all security agencies, particularly those operating in the area.” The PDP further tasked the National Assembly to urgently come to the rescue of some of the parents of the abducted girls, saying some of the parents were arrested and taken into custody for daring to demand explanations on the whereabouts of their children and wards. It added: “The federal government must be made to live up to the basic responsibility of protecting lives and property. We therefore demand a strong legislative action at the highest level to enable our nation know the truth on this matter and other issues directly affecting the safety and wellbeing of our citizens.”