The Enugu State Executive Council (EXCO) has awarded contracts for the construction of urban and rural roads worth over N1billion. Addressing newsmen on the outcome of the council’s meeting, the Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Mr. Greg Nnaji disclosed that the roads awarded for construction were the Ugwuaji road junction-Nwobodo Nnam- Umunnaji-Onukwue streets, Maryland, Enugu; the Ugwuaku internal roads, Abakpa; the Abagana/Orofia street roads, Independence Layout, Enugu and the Okpu Orba-Agu Orba road extension. The government last week awarded contracts for the construction of six major roads across the state for N2.4 billion, covering the Eha-Amufu-Nkalagu federal road at Isi-Uzo Local Government Area, which has been in a deplorable condition. Other road contracts awarded last week include the extension of the Agbani-Afor Amurri road; the extension of Ituku road; the construction of Ogonogoeji Ndi Agu Akpugo road (Atavu Bailey Bridge –Afor Onovo); the construction of 42 meter span Bailey bridge and road works across Nyama River to Amechi-Linking Umuogo and Umuagba Amechi Uno/ Obeagu community, mostly located in Nkanu West L.G.A. At the press briefing, yesterday, Nnaji stated that the council’s  decision was sequel to the recommendations of the Enugu State Urban Renewal Committee that was responsible for the upgrade, restoration and development of Enugu urban, saying: “If you are very conversant with Kenyatta market, Timber market, Awkunanaw street, you will notice that we have taken the road from Awkunanaw street to Loma-Linda junction and have equally awarded the road contract from Loma-Linda junction to Ugwuaji flyover to ensure free access mobility into Enugu”. He added: “This time around, you can come into Enugu city from Ugwuaji, do your business and exit without any hitch. The newly awarded Ugwuaji road junction-Nwobodo Nnam- Umunnaji-Onukwue streets in Maryland, Enugu, are the road connecting Maryland and Achara Layout, Enugu, across Ndemde River”. The works commissioner further explained that the Agbagana/Orofia roads off Nza Street was an interconnecting road that would enable motorists access the New Artisan from Independence layout, stressing that due diligence was taken to ensure that quality work was delivered. On the Ugwuaku internal roads at Abakpa, Nnaji hinted that the state government in furtherance of its efforts to strengthen the new look it recently gave to the satellite town through the rehabilitation of several roads, awarded the Harmony Estate road to enable the people of the area easy access to Enugu urban. On other rural roads, he said: “We have made a touch again to the rural areas with the vision of creating more urban centres for socio-economic growth”. In his briefing, the Commissioner for Information, Mr. Ogbuagu Anikwe, told newsmen that the council deliberated further on the issue of distribution and reticulation of water in the state through independent power supply. Mr. Anikwe announced that the council had put a temporary halt on the conversion of civil servants under the Civil Service Commission, pending the conclusion of the review of the extant laws of the commission, revealing that the committee for the disbursement of the Local Government Parish Club refunds would present its report next week.