Onyebuchi Ezigbo in Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has lamented that the country is witnessing an unprecedented rise in poverty and corruption index under the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. The party which challenged the APC and President Buhari to immediately take steps to rescue the kidnapped 94 Yobe State school girls, said insecurity worsening under their watch. Speaking at the National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting held at the PDP headquarters in Abuja, the National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, said the country is facing serious economic and social challenges due to the maladministration of the APC-led administration. “Our teeming youths are hopeless with no jobs. Their parents and guardians keep losing their jobs by the minute. Since 2015, more than 16 million Nigerians have lost their jobs. “According to the World Poverty Clock, an organisation that assesses poverty across the globe using credible data obtained from the United Nations (UN), International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank, Nigeria would become the extreme poverty capital of the world by the end of this month. It will overtake India as the country with the most people in extreme poverty,” he said. Citing the recent report of the Transparency International, the PDP Chairman said the verdict of the group has again vindicated the party’s position that corruption was getting worse under this government. According to Secondus, the current TI report showed how badly the APC-led federal government has mishandled Nigeria and her economy they took over from the PDP in 2015, as the largest (economy) in Africa. He said situation in the country shows that rather than deliver on its promise to check corruption, the country is being treated to more sleazes under the APC’s watch. He also lamented that the Nigerian people are today facing serious crisis in the energy sector with fuel now being is sold at as much as N250 per litre in most parts of the country,
“The so-called war against corruption has bred more corruption. Even reptiles and monkeys have joined! Discerning Nigerians had made it clear that what has been going on is the persecution of members of the opposition under the guise of anti-corruption war while monumental corruption is being perpetrated by officials of the government.
“The facts will speak for itself. So stop deceiving the people of Nigeria. APC govt is more corrupt than any government in the history of our country. It is worse now than ever. “So what are you hiding, is it the money you are paying out without appropriation, the subsidy in billion, is it the money that came in as dividends from NLNG $1bn, is it the corruption in NNPC, is it Maina gate, corruption is every where “TI said while Nigeria was ranked 136 in 2015, the country ranked 148 out of 180 countries surveyed in 2017. And, the situation is getting worse,” he said. Secondus said the security situation, has become a nightmare as killer herdsmen are competing with Boko Haram and kidnappers on who would inflict most pain on hapless Nigerians. “Nigeria today is at the crossroads. The economy is in tatters, the security situation has become a nightmare. Killer herdsmen are competing with Boko Haram and kidnappers on who would inflict most pain on hapless Nigerians.
“On Monday night, Boko Haram terrorists attacked Government Girls Secondary School Dapchi, Yobe State and as we speak reports say about 94 students were still missing. We are urging the president to do something urgently to rescue all the girls Secondus said just as in the late 90s when its founding fathers under the aegis of G34 rescued Nigeria from the clutches of the military, Nigerians are looking up to PDP to deliver them from the APC misrule, and hopelessness.
On the 2019 general election, Secondus restated that PDP has lost confidence on the electoral umpire, adding that the chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, should sanitise the voter register of resign He said PDP would not only rescue Nigeria in 2019, we will launch the country back on the path of quality growth and development. While briefing journalists on the outcome of the meeting the PDP spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan said appraised the state of the nation, and came to the conclusion that things a dire in the country. He said the party specifically frowned at the worsening state of insecurity and the deterioration at our airports, adding that PDP is urging the Minister of Transport to either face his duties or resign and assume the campaign manager job for President Buhari. Ologbondiyan also said PDP has resolved to over immediately to the state ps to commence registration of new members preparation for the 2019 general elects. Earlier his remark, the Ekiti stats governor and the chairman of the PDP’s Governors Forum, Ayodele Fayose said PDP stands a better chance of wining the next election in 2019.
He said he would continue to speak out on the shortcomings of the Buhari administration as one the presidential aspirants seeking to take over from him. “I will respect the party’s decision if it didn’t pick me but I will continue to talk and fight till the end” he said. The Deputy Senate President told the leaders that the PDP must begin think ahead on how to resolve a lot problems that have arisen in the course of the APC administration. He said PDP will be faced with the responsibility of rebuilding the country and restructuring the polity once it reclaims power at the next election.