The new Land Rover Explore mobile phone is tough and capable – like the Discovery SUV that inspired it. Powerful enough for two full days of typical use and durable enough to keep you connected when the going gets tough, it is developed by Land Rover and Bullitt Group and will be revealed at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, according to a statement by the automaker. Designed with cues from the unbeatably capable and desirable Land Rover Discovery, the Explore smartphone is at home in the office and on an outdoor adventure, navigating as you go further and stay out for longer. A powerful 4,000mAh battery gives a full days hiking, biking or skiing with screen on constantly and GPS navigation mapping activated on the five-inch HD display. Battery life can be doubled by using an Adventure Pack that also boosts the reliability and accuracy of the GPS signal and improves the mapping. The Land Rover Explore is as adventurous as you are. Drop-tested to 1.8 metres with a factory-fitted screen protector, it can survive underwater – including salt water – and can cope with extreme temperatures, humidity, thermal shock and vibration exposure. This level of protection ensures the device can survive heavy downpours or muddy trails and will continue to work, keeping you connected. The Android-powered phone’s home screen has a customisable outdoor dashboard for instant access to weather information and data from the device’s sensors. The full HD screen works in bright sunlight and can be controlled with gloves or wet fingers.  It is also fully compatible with all Land Rover in-car apps. Joe Sinclair, Director of Branded Goods and Licensing, Jaguar Land Rover, said: “This the smartphone we’d all like to own – a perfect combination of design and functionality that embodies the Land Rover DNA and enables customers to be outdoors for longer, with the confidence to go further.” Other hardware packs are available for the Land Rover Explore, including a large 4,370mAh additional battery and a universal bike mount. The Land Rover Explore launches with the Adventure Pack, bringing GPS handheld capabilities to the smartphone straight out of the box. The Land Rover Explore phone will be available for pre-order in select sub-Sahara Africa markets from April 2018. Land Rover Explore outdoor phone specifications Huge battery (4,000mAh) battery pack IP68 splash, water and dust resistance Drop-proof to 1.8 metres with factory-fitted screen protector Customisable outdoor dashboard to access to the most important weather information, sensor data, and on-device tools for your activity: eg weather, wind, tides, compass, SOS light Android Nougat (7.0) OS, with scheduled upgrade to Oreo (8.0). 4GB RAM and 64GB storage, expandable via microSD Deca-core 2.6GHz 64 bit MTK Helio X27 chipset with dual SIM functionality 16MP rear camera, 8MP front camera, 4x digital zoom Bright five-inch FHD display, Corning Gorilla Glass 5 protected, optimised for outdoor use Touchscreen can be controlled with gloves on or with wet fingers Night red filter mode reduces screen glare, preserving natural vision in low light and at night LTE Cat 6 Curated apps and content catalogue relevant to outdoor pursuits Adventure Pack specification 3,600mAh additional battery 25 x 25mm ceramic patch GPS antenna TPU protective case Stainless steel carabiner with canvas strap IP68 and 1.8-metre drop tested Bike Pack specification Bike mount and case for both stem and handlebar Tilt to adjust viewing angle or change device orientation Battery Pack specification Ultimate battery performance, additional 4,370 mAh of battery capacity IP68 and 1.8-metre drop tested Since 1948 Land Rover has been manufacturing authentic 4x4s that represent true ‘breadth of capability’ across the model range. Defender, Discovery, Discovery Sport, Range Rover, Range Rover Sport, Range Rover Velar and Range Rover Evoque each defines the world’s SUV sectors, with 80 per cent of this model range exported to over 100 countries. Bullitt Group helps global brands extend their product portfolios into new categories, particularly in the connected devices market. We design, manufacture, market and sell products under license for our brand partners. Since its formation in 2009, Bullitt Group has designed, manufactured and distributed millions of mobile phones, audio products, other connected devices and related peripherals to more than 60 countries across the globe. Bullitt Group’s head office is in Reading, UK, with additional offices in Taipei (Taiwan), Shenzhen (China), New York (USA) and Singapore.