Chineme Okafor in Abuja The Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) has disclosed that it recently recommended the setting up of a central body to act as a clearing house for all the challenges faced by operators and stakeholders in Nigeria’s privatised electricity market. It, however, pointed out that the recommendation of such an impartial body would not take away the regulatory jobs of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), but complement its mediatory responsibilities. Speaking on the back of the renewed brickbats between the Minister of Power, Works and Housing and the electricity distribution companies (Discos) in the country, in which both parties made suspicious allegations against each other, BPE’s Director General, Mr. Alex Okoh, indicated at a meeting in Abuja that the privatisation agency was having robust conversations with stakeholders in the industry on how to tackle the challenges. Okoh, noted the setting up of such central body to act as a clearing house and perhaps storekeeper of suggestions on how to move past the sector’s challenges was one of the proposals the agency had made. He did not state if the recommendation had been accepted but added the BPE considered this a good option because it was more in the centre of the relationship between the power operators and the government. “We are having very robust engagements with the Discos especially because we sold the assets and hold the government’s 40 per cent interest in all of the Discos.
“We see our role as collaborative and to also engage our government counterparts for them to see the realities of the Discos businesses and accommodate a consideration of appropriate pricing or tariff for power. “Cross sectorally, all the agencies that are involved in supervising the power sector are discussing to ensure that we are able to build a framework that allows for efficient service delivery and cost recovery for the investors in the sector. “We’ve proposed that there should be a coordinating body for all of those agencies in government responsible for the power sector reforms and that the agency should be in constant conversation with operators,” Okoh said. Following repeated calls on the government from different quarters to revoke and resell shares of core investors in companies it had privatised like the Discos, which were allegedly not doing well, Okoh, said that option was off the table. He said, “We cannot resell, it is not re-privatisation, it is already owned by the core investors, but if they make that strategic decision to admit additional investors, that will be fine. And, if they admit that liquidity is the challenge and the way they want to solve it is through equity and not debt, then they can admit investors, but if it is a debt solution, then we can approach the banks – BoI and others.”