PMB recently declared emergency on corruption in a bid to tackle the biggest setback to Nigeria’s development process. But some analysts believe the declaration should also lead to a lifestyle audit on public officials. To you, is the declaration of emergency on corruption in Nigeria sufficient to tackle the scourge?  ABIMBOLA AKOSILE  * It is just not enough. Government must declare the same emergency on nepotism, tribalism, taxation of assets and unemployment and make it constitutional. These pillars of the corruption industry will thus be weakened. – Mrs. Ncharam Roseline (JP), Owerri, Imo State  * Yes, national emergency declaration on corruption involves all true citizens. Auditing every citizen where applicable will allow police identify and expose all thieving fraudsters for justice. It has become imperative to retool our arsenal to tackle corruption’s lethal counter-attacks against the Nigerian State. More than 90 per cent of Nigerians, including over 63 million youths, are dehumanised by corruption through abject poverty, hunger, misery, hopelessness, etc. The time to act is now. – Miss Apeji Patience Eneyeme, Badagry, Lagos State  * It is not enough. Charity, they say, begins at home. The ruling party should first of all go after its corrupt officials. There should be no sacred cows or soft landing. – Mr. JohnKen Ogwuegbu, Owerri, Imo State  * It is not enough, but we need to understand the different kinds of corruption and to develop smart responses. Citizens from the private sector, academicians, civil society groups and development partners should help government in identifying the problems and find lasting solutions. Government should invest in institutions and policy, punish corrupt people, keep citizens engaged on corruption issues at local, national and global levels, ensure good governance, and make use of the platforms that exist for engagement. – Mr. Michael Adedotun Oke, Founder, Michael Adedotun Oke Foundation, Federal Capital Territory, Abuja  * Nigeria’s corruption began with leadership and trickled downwards to consume the entire fabrics of our society. Making public office roles less of a career and more of genuine service to our nation would help too, in addition to other measures. – Ms. Nkeiruka Abanna, Lagos State  * I don’t think so. This is because corruption, as far as Nigerians are concerned, is just lip service. Declaration of emergency on corruption is just propaganda because all of us are corrupt in one way or the other. When you disobey the law of the land, then that is worse than corruption. We shouldn’t deceive ourselves. Corruption has come to stay as long as there is no truth in our leaders. – Hon. Babale Maiungwa, U/Romi, Kaduna State  * Declaring emergency on corruption without lifestyle audit on public officials will not have the desired effect. Financial corruption has robbed the country of critical infrastructure for wealth creation; hence many Nigerians are living in poverty. Government should be serious in fighting corruption. – Mr. Austine Nwanya, Solid mineral consultant, Abuja  * I don’t believe that they are really fighting corruption yet and that is the thinking of most Nigerians. There are many in PMB’s cabinet that should be facing corruption charges by now but they are there enjoying their loot. If they really want to fight corruption, they would have created courts for corruption cases which will hasten trials. The corruption courts created in Brazil in 2014 had concluded 189 cases as at last year. One of the courts sentenced their former woman president to prison. The international community is seeing us as not been serious. Some corruption cases have been on since 2007; what a country! – Mr. Nduanya Egbuna, Political Scientist, Enugu  * It is a step in the right direction but that’s not enough because the government have to let the people know that it’s a fight that belongs to the masses and not government alone. People at the grassroots need to know the dangers that corruption has done to them. – Mr. Feyisetan Akeeb Kareem, Ogwashi-Ukwu, Delta State  * Yes. Government is working hard to defeat and reverse the culture of pilfering public funds and to avoid plunging Nigeria into turmoil. PMB’s declaration of emergency on the crisis sends strong signal that drastic actions will be taken to tame this monster. Public officials must therefore be audited for all those culpable to account for their sudden, illicit and huge wealth. It’s time to kill corruption now. – Mr. Apeji Onesi, Lagos State  * The declaration of emergency on corruption is a good development but not enough to tackle the scourge. It should also include lifestyle audit on public officials to completely wipe out the monster from Nigeria so that we can take our rightful place in the comity of nations. God bless Nigeria. – Mr. Odey Ochicha, Leadership Specialist, Abuja  * The only declaration Nigerians want to hear is that special courts for corruption cases be speedily established so cases can be dealt with expeditiously. On the lifestyle audit, this was done faithfully in the past under Civil Service rules. Why it is not done today, is a mystery. This should be reintroduced and even be made law by an act of parliament. – Mr. Buga Dunj, Jos, Plateau State  * The president’s declaration is an anathema to free and fair election. It’s not enough because the institutions that are supposed to do corruption’s bidding are rather rubber stamps to fight lopsided corruption cases. The president must see fighting corruption as not Buhari fight alone but a national fight where institutions will do the fighting under the ambit of the law. – Mr. Mark Ushie, Transcorp Hilton, Abuja  * The declaration is not enough, even if it is good, because the fight against corruption is not holistic, without fear, favour, segregation or ill-will. People bowed to authority because it was backed by united wisdom, affection, tact and diplomacy. – Mr. Dogo Stephen, Kaduna State  * Declaration of state of emergency on corruption is commendable and action should follow. However, the usual talking points haven’t been fully addressed. What is being done to assure Nigerians the anti-corruption struggle is not selective? Look at Executive Order Number 6, for instance; why now? This government should do more to show transparency! – Mr. E. Iheanyi Chukwudi, B.A.R., Apo, Abuja  * No, the declaration is not enough. Top officials in this present administration deserve prosecution and jail terms, like the former SGF, who was accused of corrupt acts. PMB must purge his own cabinet first! – Mr. Olumuyiwa Olorunsomo, Lagos State  * It is long overdue to declare emergency on corruption because our so-called politicians have fooled Nigerians by stealing our commonwealth. It is a good step in the right direction for the President to sign the bill in order to end corruption in governance. We all must applaud him despite the criticism from some quarters over the law. – Mr. Gordon Chika Nnorom, Public Commentator, Umukabia, Abia State   THE RESPONSE Yes, it is enough: 3 No, it isn’t enough: 9 Others: 5 Radical tip: FG self-purge! Total no of respondents: 17 Male: 14 Female: 3 Highest location: Abuja (5)   Next Week: Your Devt Priorities for Second Half? Nigeria faced lots of development challenges in the first half of this year, with negative reports on poverty, insecurity and unending killings from suspected herdsmen, beside emergency declarations on corruption, water and sanitation. To you, which of these challenges should form priorities in the second half of the year, to help realise the SDGs?  Please make your response direct, short and simple, and state your full name, title, organisation, and location. Responses should be sent between today (July 19 & Monday, July 23) to abimbolayi@yahoo.com, greatbimbo@gmail.com, AND abimbola.akosile@thisdaylive.com. Respondents can also send a short text message to 08023117639 and/or 08188361766 and/or 08114495306. Collated responses will be published on Thursday, July 26 