Mary Nnah The Centre for Citizens with Disabilities (CCD) has expressed disappointment over the delay in the passage of National Disability Bill into law. To this end, the group in collaboration with Joint National Associations of Persons with Disabilities (JONAPWD) is working with relevant stakeholders to change narratives and stereotypes about Persons with Disabilities (PWDs) in order to contribute to the speedy passage of National Disability Bill into law as well as the amendment of section 56 of the Electoral Act 2015, which allows citizens with disabilities participation in the electoral process. According to CCD’s executive director, David Anyaele, the group is greatly concerned at the level of marginalisation of PWDs in the electoral process. This, he said, is because polling units are not always physically accessible to those with physical disabilities. “The placement of ballot boxes on high tables or other inaccessible locations also make it difficult for PWD voters, especially those on wheel chairs to cast their ballots on Election Day. “The absence of sign language interpreters during some civic and voter education and political campaign messages makes it impossible for voters who have hearing impairments (deaf voters) to benefit from the information being shared in these messages”, he noted. The National Disability Bill, Anyaele explained contains provisions that would protect people with disabilities in the country against discrimination and other harmful practices. The bill provides for rights of persons with disabilities to have access to public premises, accessibility aids at public building, access to road and side walk, protection against risk and humanitarian emergencies, as well as prohibition of using them to beg for alms. In line with this advocacy, the Ekiti State Chapter of the group recently trained 45 females and males with disabilities from the 16 Local Government Areas of the State as election observers for the just concluded Ekiti State gubernatorial election. The training was part of the activities for the implementation of its Campaign for Equal Voting Access for Persons with Disabilities in Nigeria. The eventual long term goal of this intervention is that eligible citizens with disabilities are able to participate in the electoral process on equal bases with other citizens. “Our objectives include to: mobilize citizens with disabilities’ participation in elections, observe and analyse compliance and produce evidence-based report on citizens with disabilities participation in elections, and raise awareness on equal voting rights for citizens with disabilities”. Anyaele added.