… completes orientation programme for school leavers As part of efforts to actualise Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki’s skills development mandate, EdoJobs, the state’s platform for skills development and jobs creation, is carrying out a census of unemployed youths in Uhunmwode and Orhionmwon Local Government Areas, to identify skills gaps and capacity building need of the two local councils. Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to the Governor on Skills Development and Job Creation, Mrs. Ukinebo Dare, who disclosed this in a chat with journalists, said that the census will help EdoJobs fashion training modules to fit the needs of the communities in the councils. According to her, “During the registration held on Wednesday July 11, Friday July 13 and on Monday July 16, there was massive turnout as many persons from all the wards in Uhunmwode and Orhionmwon Local Government Areas were registered on the EdoJobs database.” “The Special Assistants from all the wards supported the exercise by mobilising members of their communities for the exercise. With the registration, we will be able to identify the skills gap, train youths and match them with job opportunities.” She said there is an elaborate plan to revamp selected Skills Acquisition Centres in the communities in preparation for the train-to-hire programme. Meanwhile, EdoJobs has concluded plans to partner the technology company, Bits Global, to train 100 school leavers on in-demand technology skills. According to Dare, “As part of Governor Obaseki’s promise to create 200,000 jobs, we have entered into partnership with Bits Global to train 100 under-privileged school leavers on basic ICT skills.” She explained that the training will assist the school leavers develop early interest in exploring opportunities in Nigeria’s evolving technology eco-system. She added, “The beneficiaries praised Governor Obaseki for the initiative. Some of them never had an encounter with the computer prior to the orientation week.” The orientation week covered lessons on the importance of computing, Internet, MS PowerPoint, Basics of presentation, Typing, MS Word, among others. The participants were carefully selected from the community hosting the Edo Innovation Hub, “Edo Innovates.” The training is specifically designed for young school leavers of 16 – 24 years of age. EdoBits is a project set up by the Edo State Government, Butterfly Works, and EkoBits to reduce unemployment in Edo State and aid youth in acquiring internationally-certified training. It is licensed by an entity called We are Bits based in the Netherlands