SUPER SATURDAY Beneath the facade of a successful multi-media celebrity and fashion entrepreneur, Toke Makinwa lays the wish for a true man as she expressed recently, writes Ferdinand Ekechukwu Popular on-air personality and fashion entrepreneur, Toke Makinwa, needs little or no introduction. She is famous for so many things, aside from being known for her charm and magnetic disposition to the spotlight. Over time she has built for herself an image often associated with in the industry. Not a few observers in media and entertainment will agree with this, as she is always, interestingly, in the news, trending for whatever reason self-made or not whichever way one sees it; and automatically makes the gist on gossip blogs and on social media. A whole lot of instances abound but just take a look at this. On Sunday, February 25, 2018, former First Lady of the United States of America, Michele Obama had announced on Twitter about the launch of her new book ‘Becoming’, which incidentally shares a similar title with Toke’s well-publicised book, ‘On Becoming’. Thrilled with the news, it was reported that a seemingly excited Toke went on Twitter to praise the U.S. First Lady on her Instagram page for her book and the story she has to tell, not forgetting to mention that their books have similar titles. For what the social media has come to be, one of her followers then felt Toke was taking advantage of the news to compare the books and make it all about herself and thus called out the media personality with a not so friendly message. “Girl this is not about you… Let’s make that clear… Lol.” Trust Toke would not let that pass-off as she reacted fiercely: “Oh shut up already! Her story is not mine but it’s one of her journeys. What have you done with your life? Whose life have you made better with your own story?” The inspiration behind her first self-penned book was spurred by her messy marriage scandal. The launch of the book then did stir up issues as she had revealed a lot in it. Once a young black girl with mighty dreams became a woman who knows what she wants, one of the issues in her true life story book was that it threw up a total surprise for Toke’s fans when after the book release, they got to know about Toke’s bleaching. But most shocking was the reason for her step. Toke’s bleaching was made to please and impress her ex-hubby, Maje Ayida. Often seen by critics as using every opportunity to put the spotlight on herself, each chapter of her life like her book is different from the other. She is not unaware of her doings and not one who shies away from addressing the issues around her personal life. She once admitted that she’s “not one to shy away from the camera or back down on a challenge and that’s why the Nigerian viewers love me.” Out of these challenges, Toke has grown to become the woman she is today – a fearless woman who is ready to explore her dreams. Just weeks ago, the radio and television host had cried out that she wished she had a man to go home to. In a post on her Instagram, the style icon had written: “Times like this guys, I wish I had a man to get home to. A man to kick it with, just chat about work and other times I just grab the remote control and watch TV.” In another related post, she also wrote: “Mi o le wa ku men”, which literarily means ‘I can’t kill myself’, supposedly for not having a man in her life. For out of the fullness of the heart the mouth speaks, it could be said that the multi-media celebrity expresses beyond mere wish but crave a true man in her life; a superman kind of, the type that will cuddle and say sweet nothings to her at nocturnal activities. However, it is neither out of place that she had expressed how she would feel like having a man, nor is it out of place that she had earlier declared her wish in a live Instagram video, saying “whoever I marry, you gon be proud of this baby girl, you will bless God daily for the warrior he’s blessed you with. A cornerstone, her spirit is undefeated, her soul is gold. My kids will call me blessed.” Recall that on 15 January 2014, Toke married Maje Ayida. In 2015, she separated from her husband following a scandal revealing he had impregnated his ex-girlfriend. Her marriage to Ayida, the body fitness expert was dissolved by an Igbosere High Court in Lagos on the grounds that Ayida committed adultery. Sooner the 34-year-old single woman would be seen in a relationship with socialite Seyi Kuye but things couldn’t work out between them. Seyi got married in May this year to Angel Adelaja. His marriage reportedly generated lots of talks, questioning why Toke didn’t keep him and adding that she would have been the one he married. When on Tuesday, May 29, 2018, a popular online news portal NAIJ.com had on their Twitter page announced that Toke’s ex-boyfriend, Kuye has gotten married to his pregnant girlfriend. Toke, as usual, wasn’t having it as she took to the comment section to respond rather hilarious. “So what should I do now, ehn? Roll over and die??? Scream woe is me, the poor lonely girl???’’ At another time, she was allegedly accused of sleeping with a Nigerian billionaire, Festus Fadeyi and apparently ‘squandering’ with him the N169 billion loan for his company, Pan Ocean Corporation from Skye Bank Nigeria. Then the gossips attributed her new bag line, a N50 million 2016 Range Rover and her growing collection of designer bags and accessories to the businessman. As reported in the story, “What is particularly disappointing about all the gossip milling around Toke Makinwa and Festus Fadeyi is not the fact that they are purportedly sleeping together, it is that Makinwa is being cast as some kind of Jezebel who has bewitched Fadeyi and is ‘using’ him for his money.” Many people, allegedly, had come forward then to suggest that as Toke’s marriage ended because of infidelity, she should be the last person who would turn around and then perpetuate the cycle of infidelity in another person’s marriage. Eventually, when she reacted to dating the 70-year-old married man, her response was terse as she could not deny the allegations. “If I can take the good, I can’t complain of the bad,” she twitted. Often celebrated and seen as contentious, understanding the many scandals and controversies in her life require a pool of human and social scientific theories. Controversies trail her. People abuse her even make her the butt of jokes as she admitted; they criticised her Vlog sessions which have notoriety for controversies because of her topics that many deem inappropriate. It just might be safe to conclude that the style icon attracts controversy and courts scandal or is she simply misunderstood? “Everyone at some point in their lives has been or will be misunderstood. I think it is what you do with that information or what you do with that being aware that people might misunderstand you. I find out I’m a person who likes to focus on her goals. I don’t dwell too much on the noise out there or the things that are being said.” That’s something she had expressed and thinks it’s a huge part of her story apart from the fact “that I’m grounded in my faith and pray about everything. I feel like I’m also focused on where I want to be and it’s important I share that with the world. I have no issues with people misunderstanding me because you can’t take the good alone. It doesn’t put any pressure on me. I’m more pressured by own goals.” With her inactions a subject matter always due to her status, it is not in doubt that she has assumed an enviable position on the social radar with sterling career achievements to her credit. Aside from the many descriptions to her name, her personal life and actions always subject to discourse. Widely known for her stylish outfits, the controversial media girl had claimed that she was once paid half a million naira to attend an event and now charges much more for social outings and engagements. She also had constantly shared with her followers how she has moved from “broken to glory” and from “grass to greener pasture”.  QUOTE: Often celebrated and seen as contentious, understanding the many scandals and controversies in her life require a pool of human and social scientific theories. Controversies trail her. People abuse her even make her the butt of jokes as she admitted; they criticised her Vlog sessions which have notoriety for controversies because of her topics that many deem inappropriate. It just might be safe to conclude that the style icon attracts controversy and courts scandal or is she simply misunderstood? 