Sunday Okobi Former aide of President Goodluck Jonathan, Reno Omokri, yesterday expressed disappointment over the choice of language used by the Minister of Information and Culture in describing politicians who defected from All Progressives Congress (APC) to Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Mohammed had stated that APC defectors are the stone that David will use to slay Goliath He referred to former members of the APC who left the party as ‘stones’. According to Mohammed,  “God has removed stones from our rice and sands in our garri.” Omokri noted that “it is unfortunate that the official spokesman of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the chief image maker of the Buhari administration will stoop so low to use such pedestrian language. “Mohammed has obviously not made the cross over from being the spokesman of the APC to being the spokesman of the government.” The former social media aide to Jonathan stated further that “those who cross carpeted from the APC to the PDP are Nigerians who must still be represented by the government irrespective of their political party. To cast aspersions on them is a negative stain on the government that Mohammed serves rather than the persons he attacked.” Omokri said speaking of stones though, “what Mohammed does not understand is that some stones are precious while others are common. Diamonds are stones. But they are precious. Lai Mohammed’s problem is that he and the government he “In the final analysis, I do not blame him for calling APC defectors ‘stones’. It‘s because he has not read the story of David and Goliath. “Mohammed should know that the APC is the Goliath and the PDP is the David while the APC defectors are the stones that David will use to slay Goliath in battle! “Until then, I will caution the minister to learn to speak and comport himself in a way and manner worthy of the office he holds. Calling Nigerian citizens ‘stones’ does not augur well for this government. If they persist in this name calling, they should not be surprise if they are stoned out of office in 2019.”