Businesses around the world have been deploying an early adopter version of the Oracle Blockchain Cloud Service. The service allows organisations to easily build blockchain networks to drive more secure and efficient transactions and to track goods through supply chains on a global scale. The Nigeria Customs and other global Institutes like Arab Jordan Investment Bank, CargoSmart, Certified Origins, Indian Oil, Intelipost, MTO, Neurosoft, Sofbang, Solar Site Design and TradeFin, are among the many global organisations that have already adopted the Oracle blockchain platform. Oracle Blockchain Cloud Service provides customers with a development platform to build their own networks, and to quickly integrate with Oracle Software as a Service (SaaS) and third-party applications they already use, as well as other blockchain networks and Oracle Platform as a Service (PaaS). It also enables users to provision blockchain networks, join other organisations, and deploy and run smart contracts to update and query the ledger. Oracle’s blockchain platform leverages the company’s decades of experience across industries and its extensive partner ecosystem to reliably share and conduct trusted transactions with suppliers, banks, and other trade partners through blockchain
The Executive Vice President, Oracle Cloud Platform, Amit Zavery said, “Blockchain promises to be one of the most transformative technologies of our generation. We are excited to announce the availability of Oracle Blockchain Cloud Service. “It is the result of years of research and development alongside our valued partners and customers. With Oracle’s platform, enterprises can enhance their business, eliminate unnecessary processes, and transact with their distributed networks more easily, transparently and securely than ever before. “Oracle’s blockchain platform is built on top of The Linux Foundation’s Hyperledger Fabric. It is pre-assembled with all the underlying infrastructure dependencies, container lifecycle management, event services, identity management, REST proxy, and a number of operations and monitoring tools integrated under a single console, expediting the set-up and application development process. Oracle Blockchain Cloud Service is an Oracle-managed cloud platform backed by a 99.95 per cent availability, with built-in high availability configuration, autonomous recovery agents, as well as continuous ledger backup capabilities that can enable multi-datacenter disaster recovery across availability domains.”