As of 2015, it was estimated that 415 million people suffered diabetes worldwide, with equal rates in male and female. Diabetes doubles a person’s risk to early death. From 2012 to 2015 it was reported that 1.5 to 5 Million death resulted from diabetes. Diabetes has also accounts for infertility both in male and female. While the information above may seem threatening because of the very high burden of diabetes this week’s topic  is  intended to resolve some vital mind bugging questions like: ❖what is Diabetes and how can one know he/she is diabetic ❖What are the causes of diabetes? ❖How can diabetes affect male and female fertility ❖What is pregnancy induced diabetes and how can it be managed? ❖Management and prevention of Diabetes Diabetes Mellitus (DM) commonly referred to as Diabetes is a group of metabolic disorders in which there are high blood sugar level over a prolonged period. What are the symptoms of high blood sugar? ❖Frequent urination ❖Increased thirst ❖Increased hunger Diabetes if left untreated may result in acute complications like ❖Diabetic ketoacidosis ( a condition where the body produces too much acid which may lead to coma) ❖Hyperosmolar hyperglycaemia ❖Death Effects of Diabetes on other organs includes ❖Cardiovascular (heart) disease ❖Stroke ❖Chronic kidney disease ❖Foot ulcer ❖Damage to the eyes Causes of Diabetes Mellitus The organ called the Pancreas is responsible for producing Insulin, a hormone that makes it possible for the cells of the body to utilize the sugar gotten from the foods consumed. ❖DM may occur due to insufficient Insulin production ❖DM may also be due to the cells of the body not responding properly to the insulin produced. Types of Diabetes Mellitus (DM) ❖Type 1 DM- occurs due to failure of the Pancreas to produce enough Insulin. This form of DM is also referred to as Insulin Dependent Diabetes Mellitus (IDDM) or Juvenile diabetes its cause is unknown ❖Type 2 DM- begins with insulin resistance, a condition in which the cells fail to respond to insulin properly. As the condition progresses a lack of insulin may develop. The most common cause is excessive body weight and physical inactivity, unhealthy diet, excessive alcohol and tobacco consumption. ❖Gestational DM- this occurs when a pregnant woman with no previous history of diabetes develop high blood sugar level. Effect of Diabetes Mellitus on Fertility Infertility as defined by World Health Organization (WHO) is the
inability to conceive an offspring.  Depending on the age of the
individual, if less than 35 years, one year of unprotected timed
intercourse, if over 35 years only six months of unprotected timed
intercourse before being labelled as infertile. Timed intercourse
means the intercourse at the ovulation of the egg of the female. Effect of Diabetes on Fertility of Males Men can suffer erectile dysfunction or difficult erection of the penis, delayed ejaculation and reduced sperm quantity and even reduced testosterone (or sexual desire). Men that suffer infertility from Diabetes, their erection difficulties are caused by nerve damage and slower circulation in the small blood vessels due to poorly controlled diabetes. When the nerves of the male organ, the penis, are damaged, there is lack of sensitivity and the ability to ejaculate or eject, the sperm is also impaired and in some cases there is delayed emission of the sperm. Backwards or retrograde ejaculation occurs from damage of the nerves of the penis when the bladder remains open during ejaculation and the sperm enters the bladder instead of exiting normally from the penis.  This backwards movement of the sperm would delay the fertilization of the awaiting egg thereby causing infertility of the male partner. ❖Various research studies on the effects of Diabetes have
revealed a reduced sperm quality, therefore reducing the male
fertility. ❖Diabetes also lowers levels of the male hormone, testosterone,
which leads to low sperm count and reduced libido (sex drive). Effect of Diabetes on Fertility of Females ❖ Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome (PCOS) ❖OIigomenorrhea (irregular periods) ❖ Secondary Amenorrhea (periods that stop and restart) ❖ Premature menopause(Complete arrest of periods earlier than usual) ❖Diabetes can cause pregnancy to be a nightmare with Gestational Diabetes Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome (PCOS), previously presented in This Day health column, deals with women that have multiple cysts in the ovaries leading to missed periods and infertility.  There is a close association with obesity and Diabetes. Studies have shown that females with Type 1 (Childhood) and Type 2 (Adult onset) Diabetes is prone to PCOs. Women with Diabetes have disorganized cycles of periods in the form of
missed periods (oligomenorrhea) and even long intervals of no periods
(secondary amenorrhea). This is as a result of the pituitary gland hormones losing its control of the reproductive organs. Management Most of these infertility issues can be handled with ease
through Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART), using In Vitro
Fertilization (IVF) techniques.  At times, consultation with an
urologist and use of special surgical techniques, TESA, are necessary to ensure delivery of a single normal and viable sperm to the awaiting egg. Close collaboration with your fertility specialist will help with the
understanding of the proper medications and lifestyle changes needed to be at the peak of Reproductive health even in Diabetics……to be continued next week 