Laleye Dipo in Minna
Investigation into the circumstances that led to the shooting at the Palace gate of the Etsu Nupe and Chairman of the Niger State Council of Traditional Rulers, Alhaji Yahaya Abubakar, has begun. Some policemen were said to have shot into the air at the entrance to the palace yesterday morning immediately the monarch who just returned home from an official engagement retired into his room. A source said a mobile police commander said to be from Ilorin, Kwara State was behind the shooting following what the source described as his being attacked with teargas by the security men attached to the traditional ruler. It was not known why the MOPOL commander was sprayed with teargas but unconfirmed report had it that he was prevented from overtaking the traditional ruler’s motorcade, a development that infuriated the unnamed commander.
During the shooting into the air, a plain cloth policeman also attached to the palace was reportedly shot in the leg, the source said. However, the names of the MOPOL commander and the policeman shot in the leg could not be ascertained as at press time.
However, a public statement from the Bida Emirate Council, which confirmed the incident “dismissed rumours making the rounds” that the convoy of the respected monarch was attacked by “armed robbers or hired assassins”. The statement signed by the Secretary of the Emirate Council, Alhaji Usman Abdulmalik, said neither the traditional ruler nor his convoy was attacked as being rumoured “What happened was a display of unprofessional conduct between a police officer who claimed to be traveling to Ilorin and the police officers in the traditional ruler’s convoy
“The public is therefore, enjoined to be calm and continue to pray for peace and God’s guidance at all times” Alhaji Usman advised in the statement. All efforts to get the police reaction to the incident either at the Bida area command or the police headquarters in Minna were abortive.
It was learnt that the state Commissioner of Police, Mr. Paul Yakadi, had dispatched officers to Bida to commence investigation into the matter.