By Seriki Adinoyi in Jos Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) has lashed out at the former Head of State, Gen. Yakubu Gowon (retired), over his suggestion that the leadership of the cattle merchants in Nigeria should be invited by the security agencies for questioning over the ceaseless killings in the country and the crisis with farmers.
Plateau State Chairman of the MACBAN, Mohammad Abdullah Nuru, in his response to Gowon’s suggestion, said old age was disturbing the elder statesman and should not be taken seriously. Gowon, 83, made the recommendation at the Benue People’s House, Makurdi, the Benue State capital, when he visited Governor Samuel Ortom to commiserate with the government and the people of the state over the wanton killings and destruction of property.
But in a swift reaction, Abdullah said Gowon was being “disturbed by old age,” according to media report. He said the “Gowon is talking rubbish and out of ignorance. He should go back and see what he did before now; when he was Head of State, Gowon was the person who messed this country up. So, forget about him, old age is disturbing him.
“When he said he was advising the security agencies to invite the Fulani stakeholders and leaders of Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore, what did he mean? Did he mean that they were the perpetrators of the crimes? If he has facts, let him expose it so that the proper thing will be done.” “Although I am not in the Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore that he mentioned, being a leader, I strongly believe that if Yakubu Gowon as an elder statesman and stakeholder in Nigeria will come out and show his sadness concerning what is happening in Nigeria, he should be cautioned. “It is possible he has something in his mind that is disturbing him personally.
“Look at what is happening in Plateau State; these attacks and killings that are going on in Plateau State.
“On Monday, they attacked one Abubakar’s son in Barkin Ladi. He was shot, injured and his car destroyed. But fortunately, he did not die; his two legs have been destroyed.
“The following evening, on Tuesday, they shot at two pastors going back from Mangu. These things continue happening day in, day out, almost on a daily basis. “You will have one killing, destruction of property, killing one person or the other. But because it is not Fulani and it is not Muslims that have perpetrated them nobody will discuss that one,” he explained.