The Presidential Amnesty Programme is looking at the grievances of its offshore education delegates, writes Chidi Obiando Given the frequent complaints from beneficiaries in the mainstream and social media, there is no doubt that the Offshore Education component has been one of the most challenging initiatives of the Presidential Amnesty Programme. While most of the complaints, as learnt, usually turn out as lacking in substance, there have however been genuine grievances by the beneficiaries, most of who are burning the midnight candle thousands of kilometres away from home, relations and friends. Conscious of this fact, the Coordinator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme, Professor Charles Quaker Dokubo, shortly after assuming office, set up a committee to review the operations of both the onshore and offshore education units of the amnesty office. The committee has since turned in its report and in line with its recommendations, Professor Dokubo has approved sweeping reforms that have since begun easing the burden of the amnesty programme’s education delegates in schools in Nigeria and abroad. To formally activate the far-reaching reforms and to interface with students directly, Professor Dokubo on Thursday, 19 July, in London, met with all the amnesty programme’s education delegates currently in universities across United Kingdom. The meeting in a way was a continuation of series of meetings which the presidential adviser has been holding with stakeholders and beneficiaries of the amnesty programme across the country since his appointment. For Prof. Dokubo, the meeting was also an opportunity to carry out an on the spot-on evaluation of the students’ academic progress, celebrate those completing their programmes and encourage those who may be facing one challenge or the other not to lose focus. This was in addition to the fact that he was able to hear directly from the students on how they are progressing with their academics and general well-being as well as interact with the Nigeria High Commission’s representatives on the welfare of the beneficiaries of the scholarship programme. In all, 47 students from 25 institutions across the United Kingdom were at the meeting in London which was also attended by the Nigeria High Commissioner in the UK, George Adesola Oguntade, his deputy, Kabiru Bala, a representative of the Office of the Vice- President, a few staff members of the amnesty office, some presidential amnesty sponsored PhD students, among others. Having also studied extensively abroad, Prof. Dokunbo did not have any problem in relating and understanding the challenges the students told him they were facing in the United Kingdom. This was no doubt why the interaction between the scholarship’s beneficiaries and the amnesty team which held at Nigeria House, Northumberland Avenue, London was conducted in a friendly and convivial atmosphere as the coordinator delivered his good will message of encouragement, reassurance and advice, based on his own personal experience as a former student in various locations in the UK. He also spoke on opportunities available for the students in the Presidential Amnesty Programme on completion of their studies while the Nigerian high commissioner and his deputy also took time to encourage the students to be focused. The welfare and well-being of the students were the main reasons for conveying the meeting. Therefore, the students who said they felt abandoned because they never had the opportunity of meeting any top official from the amnesty office much less, the presidential adviser and the coordinator himself in over three years, were excited at the opportunity to lay down their various challenges at the feet of those they know can provide appropriate solutions to them. Thus, they took time to pour out their complaints which were mostly centered on timeous payment of their school fees, living expenses and various forms of hardship they are experiencing studying in the United Kingdom while the coordinator and the high commissioner patiently listened and took notes. Prof Dokubo responded with detailed answers to the questions, even as he repeatedly assured the students that the main purpose of his being in the office as the coordinator of the amnesty programme is to ensure their welfare. On the persistent complaints about delay in the payment of the allowances due the students for instance, the coordinator informed the delegates that most times, the problem was beyond his office as it may be due to delay in release of funds budgeted for the programme by government or problems with the account details of the students. He, however, acknowledged that some of the delays may be due to hitches in the transition from one administration to the other whenever the government appointed a new coordinator for the Presidential Amnesty Programme. Citing specific examples to buttress this point, Dokubo noted that the processing of Jan-Feb 2018 payments for the students were delayed because funds were not released on time to the office by the government. In response to another question, the presidential aide also explained that there is always a time lag between when the budget is signed into law by the president and release of funds to ministries, departments and agencies of government. But he ended his explanations with the good news that the processing and gradual payment of allowances to students had commenced with some students in the UK already paid three months in-training and accommodation allowances. He assured that others will get theirs soon. On complaint by some of the students that they have not been paid their due allowances for several months, the special adviser advised such beneficiaries to contact the Head of Offshore Education at the Amnesty Office and supply the details of the missed payments. Dokubo also revealed that the Offshore Education Unit is currently collating all such complaints of unpaid allowances and asking the Central Bank of Nigeria to provide proof of payment or non-payment through telex copies.  “If there is evidence that you were not paid during that particular period, the Office will process the back payment for you,” the presidential adviser assured. But he also gladly informed the students that a job placement sub-unit has been set up at the amnesty office to support beneficiaries who have completed their studies to secure jobs while urging them to send their CVs to the office via email.  He also reminded the students that the purpose of their sponsorship was to support them as persons from violence and pollution impacted communities in the Niger Delta in order to get skills that will equip them to get jobs or become entrepreneurs and creators of jobs. Therefore, Dokubo urged the students to understand that being sponsored for offshore education under the amnesty programme is a privilege which should be appreciated in spite of whatever hardship they may be facing in the cause of their studies in the United Kingdom. Other questions asked by the beneficiaries included the possibility of continuation of the scholarship if a student failed to complete his degree at the stipulated time as a result of failure of a module or a course, sponsorship for higher degrees, the possibility of beneficiaries whose studies were disrupted by involvement in police case being reinstated to the programme, as well as the likelihood of the amnesty office helping beneficiaries who have completed their degree programmes to get employment. While such questions are regular concerns that come up in the daily administration of the Onshore/Offshore Education Unit of the amnesty programme, there has not been clearly set out policies to address them over the years. But as part of his desire to retool all aspects of the amnesty programme, Dokubo had set up a committee to draft new policies to guide and address some of the regular concerns some weeks before the London event. This, the special adviser did with the understanding that if there are set policies and procedures, communication with the students will be clear and operation of the education unit can run even more seamlessly. The new policy guiding the offshore education programme which has already been adopted clearly stipulated conditions for continuation or discontinuation of sponsorship of beneficiaries, conditions for sponsorship of students for second degree and guidelines for new offshore deployment of students. The new policy also addressed the issue of payment of book allowance to the students for the 2016/2017 Academic Session as well as facilitating return of beneficiaries to Nigeria during and at the end of their studies. Therefore, in addressing the various concerns of the students at the London forum, the presidential adviser relied on and quoted copiously from the new policy. The students went away from the interaction programme with their concerns well addressed. Indeed, stakeholders have hailed Prof. Dokubo for initiating the inter-face with the students as well as the new draft policy as a fresh start for the offshore education component of the amnesty programme. Documents made available by the Amnesty Office show that pursuant to the reintegration component of the Presidential Amnesty Programme, the Amnesty Office in 2011 deployed 1, 692 students to several universities outside Nigeria. The office has since then continued to deploy delegates to world class educational institutions offshore. While 1,535 delegates have successfully graduated from the Offshore Education Programme so far, 207 students, spread across 66 institutions in 20 countries, are currently in training. 