– Opponent kicks, threatens appeal By David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka The Justice H. A. Olusiyi-led Anambra State Election Tribunal Thursday evening upheld the victory of the senator representing Anambra Central Senatorial District, Chief Victor Umeh, in the January 13 senatorial re-run election in the zone. Olasiyi, in his judgment, affirmed Umeh’s victory, striking out the petition by the candidate of Mega Peoples Progressives Party (MPPP), Mr. Nkem Ekweozoh, challenging the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) over the declaration of Umeh as the winner of the election. The tribunal dismissed the five reliefs sought by the petitioner as lacking in merit just as it held that the petitioner was unable to prove his case beyond all reasonable doubt. Umeh had on January 13, in the senatorial rerun, won in all the seven local governments that make up the senatorial zone, but was dragged to court by Ekweozoh, a lawyer, on grounds of improper nomination and others. Ekweozoh had in his petition stated other grounds for dragging the senator to court as not duly elected by majority of valid votes cast at the election, urging the tribunal to declare the victory invalid as it was fraught with corrupt practices and substantial non compliance with the Electoral Act. He also claimed that Umeh was not qualified to contest the election as his nomination came at a time he was still the national chairman of his party, the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and that Umeh spent far above the maximum election expenses of N40 million as stipulated by law. In the petition EPT/AN/SEN/01/2018, APGA and INEC were joined in the petition as second and third respondents respectively. But delivering a unanimous judgment, that lasted more than five hours, Justice Olusiyi, who led the other two judges, Justice A. O. Ayoola, and Justice A. U. Birnin Kudu, described the petitioner as a “meddlesome interloper”, stating that he lacked the locus standi to contest the outcome of the election. Ruling that the tribunal lacked jurisdiction to look into the issue of Umeh’s nomination, sponsorship and candidature, the judge also described Ekweozoh as a “rabble rouser” for making heavy weather of the issues of Umeh’s sponsorship and nomination when he was not a member of APGA or an aggrieved aspirant. He said: “You cannot meddle in the domestic affairs of a party to which you are a complete stranger. “All the particulars of fact in support of the petitioner’s grounds that Umeh at the time of the election was not qualified to contest the election were not proved by any credible evidence known to our laws and therefore the petition has failed woefully.” Meanwhile, Ekweozoh has stated that he will appeal the judgment, saying that the same lacuna that robbed Mrs. Uche Ekwunife of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) victory in her senatorial position, after Umeh contested the validity of her nomination also played out in his matter. He said: “I am pained that the tribunal tagged me a meddlesome interloper for challenging Umeh’s nomination by APGA when it was the same situation that robbed Mrs. Ekwunife her victory after 2015 general election.” Ekweozoh further said that his 90-year-old lawyer father who was called to the Bar in 1958 would equally petition several flaws noticed during the trial and judgment of his matter.