“Firstly, it is not true that I did refuse/neglect to inaugurate members of the re-constituted boards of parastatals and agencies under the supervision of my ministry as alleged in your letter. The Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment has four (4) parastatals namely – The Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), National Directorate of Employment (NDE), National Productivity Centre (NPC), and Michael Imoudu Institute for Labour Studies (MINILS). Boards of the latter three (3) agencies have been re-constituted and members were inaugurated on March 8, 2018, in conformity with a presidential directive.” He maintained that: “All the three (3) boards are currently operational. The only agency left out was the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), which before the directive, had been enmeshed with major issues of corruption involving about forty eight billion naira (N48 billion) comprising federal government and employers’ contributions to the Employees’ Compensation Fund plus some non-remitted PAYE taxes, which were carted away through well perfected sleaze operation.” The minister further stated that given the high prevelance of corruption in the NSITF, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) was already investigating the matter, stating that: “I am sorry that I will be unable to accede to your ‘directives’ to inaugurate all the boards within one (1) week as the ministry had already inaugurated the aforementioned three (3) boards but will in this case of the NSITF adhere to the ‘work plan’ on the NSITF as approved by Mr. President who is the Head of the Government of the Federation. “Based on this, be assured that the Board of NSITF will be constituted very soon, at most, before the end July 2018.  “I am not oblivious of the fact that you are a very interested party in the matter because having served as Chairman of the NSITF Board before the last Board and as a former Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) President, you would be interested in the tripartite colouration of the board being maintained more so as labour still remains your base constituency.” Ngige also observed that since  the Administrative and Financial Panel of Enquiry has just concluded its work and presented her report, “the board will be in place very soon in order to assist the implementation committee that is being put in place by the ministry to effect the various policy recommendations that are aimed at sanitising the agency and strengthening the very weak internal audit system that  allowed five billion naira (N5 billion) to be taken out of this organisation inone single day without voucher(s)”.