The African University of Science and Technology (AUST), Abuja has graduated over 25 PhDs and over 400 Masters degree holders in its first decade of existence. Also, alumni of the institution have produced high-level research findings in notable areas, including the treatment and control of cancer, renewable energy and the development of affordable alternative building materials. The institution whose board is chaired by Nigeria’s former Minister of Finance, also former World Bank Managing Director, Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, was established by the Nelson Mandela Institution (NMI) in collaboration with the World Bank and other international agencies in 2007, following advocacy by the former South African President, the late Nelson Mandela for a youth-led renaissance, based on strengthening Africa’s capacity in science and technology. Renowned Mathematician and former Vice Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Professor Oye Ibidapo-Obe, also erstwhile President of the Nigerian Academy of Sciences, serves as Vice Chair of the board. Speaking on the achievement of the institution in the last 10 years, the President of AUST, Professor Kingston Nyamapfene, cited the example of the combined work and research findings by three of its alumni; Dr. Kwabena Kan-Dapaah, Dr. John David Obayemi and Dr. Stella Dozie-Nwachukwu, which have raised hope for alternative ways to treat cancer using nano-particle technology, reducing the damage caused to healthy tissue by conventional chemotherapy. “It is reassuring that AUST is being true to its mission because most AUST graduates find employment before or soon after graduation and, in particular, that in many cases, it was the nature and quality of their research work that prospective employers found attractive.” He said the alumni of the institution have also earned honours for their contributions and exploits in other areas, adding, “Miss Blessing Onyeche Ugwoke, who recently completed her master degree in Petroleum Engineering was selected for the ‘Debut in Research: Young Talents from Africa Prize’ and received the Eni Award for Excellence, last year.” “Her selection was based on the quality of her M.Sc. research work, with a thesis titled ‘A Study on Spherical Cap Bubble Transition Boundary for Bubbly to Slug flow’, under the supervision of Dr. Abdulkadir Mukhtar. “AUST’s academic programmes combine advanced coursework with intensive research, even at the M.Sc. level. The university is one of only 46 World Bank African Centres of Excellence on account of its cross-disciplinary work through the Pan-African materials institute, which it hosts.”