By Michael Olugbode in Maiduguri Four years after the abduction of 276 Chibok schoolgirls, Police Wednesdayparaded eight men allegedly involved in the abduction of the girls. The eight persons were among 22 suspects arraigned for acts of terrorism by the police in Maiduguri on Wednesday. Parading the suspects before journalists, the Borno State Commissioner of Police, Damian Chukwu, who explained that the 22 were arrested in both Borno and Yobe States, said it was as a result of the gallantry of the Inspector General of Police (IGP)’s Intelligence Response Team (IRT) led by DCP Abba Kyari. Chukwu who addressed the press conference with DCP Abba Kyari, said he was pleased to parade the 22 dreaded members of the Boko Haram Terrorist group who were involved in various crimes including the kidnapping of the Chibok schoolgirls, over 50 suicide bombings within Maiduguri, Borno State and Adamawa State. They were also involved in the invasion of Bama and Gwoza; several attacks/ambush and killings of thousands of innocent Nigerians, including security operatives and civilians in Borno and other Northeastern states. He said: “Irked and worried by the persistent suicide bombings and killing of innocent citizens in the North East by the dreaded Boko Haram Terrorist Group terrorising North Eastern Nigeria, IGP Ibrahim Idris equipped and deployed the Special Operatives of the IGP Intelligence Response Team, IRT, with enough credible technical intelligence to Maiduguri, Borno State to trace and arrest all the terrorists responsible for the suicide bombings and other terrorist attacks in the North East.” He said thousands of the Police Mobile Force (PMF) and Counter Terrorist Unit (CTU) personnel, the Police Bomb Squad (EOD), the Police Air Wing, the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad, Conventional Police personnel, the Force Criminal Intelligence Department (FCIID), the Police Terrorism Investigation Centre and other support detachments of the Force attached to Operaton Lafiya Dole were all deployed to achieve the success.  On his part, Kyari said: “After a lot of planning and use of advance technology between 04/07/18 and 09/07/18, IRT Special Teams With Support from SARS/CRACK team of Borno State Command swung into action and eventually succeeded in arresting 22 confirmed Boko Haram terrorists who confessed to several suicide bomb explosions within Borno and Adamawa States, kidnapping of the Chibok School girls, invasions of Bama/Gwoza among many other crimes. “Suspects narrated various roles each of them played. Amongst them are the commanders and coordinators of suicide bombings in Borno State, coordinator and members of the Chibok School Girls Kidnapping, ambush of security agents, logistics suppliers and their receivers of gold, international currencies, cows etc.” Suspects arrested include Mayinta Modu, Adam Mohammed, Gujja Jidda, Mamman Wardi, Alhaji Modu Jidda, Ajiri Bulama Dungus, Mohammed Abba, Fannami Mustapha, Adam Mustapha, Mustapha Kanimbu and Ibrahim Mala. Others are Abdullahi Mohammed Gawi, Maina Adam, Wano Musa, Ishaka Musa, Abubakar Mohammed, Usman Umar, Maina Abba, Maina Gambo, Abubakar Kori, Bukar Abatcha and Muhammad Bashir. He said: “All suspects arrested have confessed to be masterminds of several attacks and suicide bomb blasts in Baga Road, 3-3, Custom, Bulunkutu, Post Office, Muna, Kasuwan Shanu, Dalori IDP camp etc., etc. in Maiduguri and many suicide attacks in Adamawa State, killing of thousands of innocent Nigerians including ambush on security agencies and civilians in the many parts of Northeast Nigeria. “Suspects are helping the operatives with useful information to arrest the other fleeing Boko Haram terrorist commanders.”