 By Akinwale Akintunde A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja has remanded Dr. John Abebe, Chairman, Inducon Nigeria
Limited, in Ikoyi Prison following his arraignment over an alleged forgery and fabrication of evidence. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) arraigned Abebe, who is a younger brother to the late former First Lady, Stella Obasanjo, before Justice Mojisola Dada on a four-count charege of forgery, Fabricating evidence and attempt to pervert the course of
justice. The defendant however pleaded not guilty to the charges and he was subsequntly remanded in Ikoyi Prison by the court pending the hearing of his bail application on August 2, 2018. According to the Charge Sheet, the EFCC said on June 22, 2010, Abebe knowingly forged
a letter dated November 30, 1995 and belonging to BP Exploration Nigeria Limited to that of his company, Inducon Nigeria Ltd. The commission said the defendant forged the alleged letter by inserting in page 2 of it the following words: “Also note that the ‘Buy-Out Option’ only applies to the pre-production stage of the NPIA. The $4m buy-out is thus irrelevant from production of Oil in any of our fields.” and purported same to have been issued by BP Exploration Nigeria Limited. The EFCC also accused Abebe of an attempt to “pervert the course of justice” by tendering the allegedly forged November 30, 1995 letter “as a fabricated evidence” in court, in Suit No. FHC/L/CS/224/2010 between Dr. John Abebe, Inducon Nigeria Limited and Statoil Nigeria Limited. Abebe was further accused of attempting to “mislead the court” by using fabricated evidence, contrary to Section 120 (2) of the Criminal Code Cap C17, Law of Lagos State of Nigeria 2003. The EFCC prosecutor, Rotimi Oyedepo, told the court that by attempting to pervert the course of justice, Abebe violated Section 126 (2) of the Criminal Code Cap C17, Law of Lagos State of Nigeria 2003. Oyedepo added that forgery was a violation of Section 467 of the Criminal Code Cap C17, Law of Lagos State of Nigeria 2003. Despite the move by the defendant’s counsel, Dr. Uche Nwobike (SAN), to argue his client’s bail application, Justice Dada adjourned hearing of the bail application till August 2, 2018 and ordered that Abebe be remanded in Ikoyi Prison.