• How they found love and lost it Remember Cyndi Lauper’s music of yesteryear, ‘Girls Just Want To Have Fun’ ? Here’s the sad reality: not a few silver-spoon kids give up marriage, even when it is glaring that they only need to work through the very issues that caused the trouble in the first place. Thus having married young, they keep on marrying, springing from bride to bride or groom to groom like the chamois of the Alps undeniably adept at leaping from crag to crag. This explains why second and third marriages often, fail more than first marriages; and the third marriages are even worse. They would wear their joys upon their sleeves if it were truly possible for them to chance on bliss. Notwithstanding their piteous fates, they make the best of their situations and present a fascinating show of it, to the world. They are Nigeria’s league of young divorcees. Although society and culture consider their status a predicament, they do not see themselves as severely disadvantaged; rather they consider their inability to keep a husband and have a stable home a benefit of some sort. Many of them would passionately argue that if they had stayed married, they wouldn’t have attained the fame and success they flaunt today. They have tasted marriage, it didn’t just work for them hence they dumped their husbands like a bad habit. Some of them still take care of their children, live large and flaunt fantastic jobs. They don’t want to remarry because they enjoy the freedom that comes with being single mothers. Ask Caroline Danjuma, Orode Uduaghan, the daughter of former governor of Delta State, Emmanuel Uduaghan, Tope Adebutu, the daughter of Chief Kessington Adebutu, Dunni Igbinedion, the estranged wife of Fred Igbinedion, Tiwa Savage, the sinfully beautiful singer, Toke Makinwa, the former wife of Maje Ayida, Funke Fowler, the daughter of Dr. Tunde Fowler, the FIRS boss, Elohor Aisien, the dark hued former wife of Owen, Bisola Dejonwo, Omosede Igbinedion, and many more. The list is as long and endless as their sad stories prompting questions and tiresome rhetoric about the wisdom of silver spoon marriages. Oftentimes, the estranged couples shamelessly wash their dirty linen in public revealing to all and sundry things that are best kept secret. Many a party to such marriages has revealed that they had been victims of forced marriages and inconvenient betrothals that never enjoyed their consent. After spending so much money, the farce devastatingly ends oftentimes for the two strange bedfellows, forcefully united on the altar of their parents’ vanities and egotism. It’s indeed a pitiful world for these scions of the rich. Despite keeping a decent distance from matrimony, most of them have reverted to their maiden name. Perhaps it’s due to the immense benefits enjoyable from their retention of such names – like the prestige associated with answering to such names.