SUPERSATURDAY It is doubtful if Cossy Orjiakor, a popular actress and video vixen would ordinarily like to court controversy. But it is strange how the controversy has always literally dogged her steps and even actions. The light complexioned entertainer that shot into the limelight many years ago is always in the news, particularly with her revealing and massive boobs that have over time, become source of gossip and discussions. She talks to Bayo Adeoye about her life, men and why she loves controversy  People see you as an artiste , musician and actress. Who exactly is Cossy Orjiakor? I am an all-round entertainer; I try to make people happy through different things I do. I am a talented person and I exhibit the talents if given the chance Lately, you have recoiled into your shell. We hardly see you in movies? I have been acting but I have not been playing the controversial roles many expected me to play. Maybe that it is why it looks like I have not been acting. I have a movie in the cinema titled ‘Kondo Games’ directed by Charles Uwagbai. I played a lead role acting alongside great actors like Jide Kosoko, Mercy Johnson, Uche Jombo, Mercy Aigbe, Francis Odega and other top Nollywood actors. Talking about controversy; people know you more for controversial kinds of stuff than being an actress. Is this deliberate? Well, I feel if I can’t change that part of me so I just have to embrace it totally. So, controversy is part of me. Really, so how do you feel when you read negative stories about yourself on the pages of newspapers or online? I don’t feel bad about it; I have developed a deep skin for such things. Whenever I see things like that, I just imagine what’s going through the person’s mind for such negativity to come out of it. They must be caught up with evils and hatred for themselves not to like someone they don’t even know. When people write negative stuff about me and I am like this guy must be frustrated and needs help. At least, I made the person react maybe in a good or  bad way. Do you know that people don’t really see you as an entertainer but rather someone that loves displaying her boobs and other God-given endowments Do I really care? The funny thing is I live along and I’m not the type that takes pictures that much. I can’t remember the last time I took pictures. But sometimes maybe when I go out with friends like twice a month, those are the periods I get to snap and the pictures will go viral. Those times are the times I wear those revealing clothes. You don’t expect me to wear those clothes to the supermarket so those clothes are strictly for parties and trust me, I love parties. When I was small, my dad was a strict person. I never really partied even when I was in school, no clubbing. So I missed those lifestyles and now that I have the opportunity to do it , so I need to enjoy it. Some weeks ago, you posted on your Instagram about your neighbour’s husband. Tell us what really transpired? I realised the wife of the man in question was hurting. The man is used to hitting her, I have seen him several times push her down the stairs, and the lady is so pretty. Most Igbo men, when they feel they can’t really control a woman, they try to use the beating to make her feel she is still under them. So they will feel like they are the man but they forget that it doesn’t work that way. The lady got me a jumpsuit when she travelled so I promised to take her out to eat isi – ewu , the husband is also my friend and we speak quite often. So, on this fateful day, I took her to a joint so we could buy catfish. I picked her from her house with her house help. On getting there, she told the house help to go inside with the baby and shut the door from the back so we both left to buy the catfish thinking the house girl has gone into the house. I ordered two fishes because I know it takes like 30-40 minutes before the fish would be ready. While we were there, the husband got home and called that the house help was not at home with their daughter. We were both scared thinking maybe the house help ran away with the baby. She called the husband to please check them at their lesson teacher’s house opposite their house. The husband told her to come back home and provide his daughter so I hastened the fish up and we left for the lesson teacher’s house and saw them there. We were busy talking to the maid about why she didn’t do as we ordered her to by staying at home with the kid. While we were talking, he came with a belt and started hitting the woman. I kept quiet because she was used to it, so the daughter was begging the dad to stop beating her mother; he also flogged the little girl. Then I remember those days when my dad used to beat my mum but I still love them both because my dad never beat us the kids. I remember the scene of a white guy that killed the wife and his child. I was trying to tell him that was wrong to flog the little girl but I was shocked that he descended on me with the same belt and started flogging me. After that, I reported to the police but he refused to show up and I later reported to the Lagos State Domestic Violence Centre and they gave me a barrister but the woman was begging me to forgive her husband. I decided to keep it cool because I respect the lady a lot. I have not withdrawn from the case but I just had to keep my cool and wait for him to hit the lady again before I revisit the case.  Many were surprised when you posted some sensitive parts of your body on Instagram after the incident. They wonder the kind of cloth you were wearing when he flogged you? I posted a video on Instagram that same night that’s what I was wearing. T-shirt, pink jeans. The belt is strong and hard leather.  Recently, you had an issue with some actresses like Iyabo Ojo and some others, tell us what happened? No.  She is among the people I don’t like. That’s just it!  Just Like that?  Yes, just like that.  It was in the news, especially online sometimes ago, that you pimp for the top and rich men in the country. How true is this? I don’t want to talk about it. It is not true.  We understand you are a good friend of Apostle Johnson Suleiman, what is he to you? He is a pastor I guess. Well, we are close, but when I knew him I never knew he was an apostle, but I know him.  That is interesting. You knew him as what? I know him, but I don’t want to say anymore. (smiles)  Why? Are you scared of him or what? (keeps mute)  Well, when is Cossy getting married? I am scared of getting married. I have lots of married people as friends so I am just scared that you will just be in your house and someone will start beating you. I am this kind of person that sometimes I might not want to sweep my house, cook, but once you are married you must do all these and try to satisfy someone but you are not even getting paid to do all that and then, you might be beaten if you fail to do it.  When love starts it’s sweet but after three years it goes sour. I don’t think I want to be caught up in that scenario.  There was a time you said you love babies. How do you intend to make one without marriage? Do you want to join the baby mamas gang? If there are sperm banks with cute specimen I might end up getting one there. Why will I get pregnant for someone when I don’t wanna put a ring on my finger? I would rather go to the sperm bank, get it and make cute babies.  You are popular with your revealing boobs. How do you feel when people stare at you in public? I don’t even notice. When I look at people they don’t look at me. I don’t see people looking at me.  Some artistes take drugs to get high, what gets you high? I am naturally high I don’t need drugs.  You said you don’t have a boyfriend. What happened to your last relationship? I think it’s the distance. The person is not here, so to see him requires a lot of stress.  There was a time you dated a German, what happened to the relationship? The relationship was not working so I quit.  When was the last time you had sex? I am a virgin (laughs out loudly)  How do you satisfy yourself sexually? Do you subscribe to sex toys and dolls? I actually have a lot of them in my house. I buy them a lot. I just buy them just for the sake of it.  You are rich and stay in the highbrow area of Lagos. We all know that acting alone can’t fetch you such wealth? I work hard, I am a farmer. I have a large expanse of land in my village where I plant different crops. I am an entertainer too. I am an accountant too. I had 2:1 from University of Nigeria, Nsukka. I am also into businesses.  You are producing a movie. Tell us about it? I have produced it already; it is in the market and next month, August 15 precisely, I am shooting two movies back to back, one of the working titles is ‘Ungrateful Delilah’.  The movie is based on true life story but a little bit twisted. We have gotten the cast and we are expecting to put the finishing touch on it. The first time I produced a movie I was dealt with badly. I had a wrong casting and people stayed in the hotel for over a month eating my money. It happens if you are a rookie in movie production because I was not told how it was supposed to be done but now working with the team I have on the ground, it will make work easier for me. PIX: COSSY.jpg and Cossy.jpg