Seriki Adinoyi in Jos The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has disclosed the reason it has become imperative to train the over 30,000 Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF) that have assisted the Nigerian military in fighting insurgency in the North-east, noting that aside from re-energising and capacitating them to perform their community security services professionally and dutifully, if they are not taken off the streets after the insurgency, they could constitute security threat that might be worse than Boko Haram in the aftermath. The Country Director of UNDP, Samuel Bwalya, disclosed this Friday during the graduation of 453 CJTF/Vigilantes drafted from Adamawa, Borno and Yobe States that have been trained to provide effective community security services, identify/report human right abuses, identify causes of gender/sexual violence, and identify/resolve conflicts through dialogue to promote peaceful co-existence in their various communities. Bwalya, who was represented by Mr. Matthew Alao, the coordinator of the training programme, also disclosed that so far, UNDP has trained about 2,000 CJTF/Vigilantes in the three states since December 2017 at Citizenship and Leadership Training Centre (CLTC) in Jos, Plateau State, adding that although 30,000 is a huge number, UNDP was targeting to train 20 to 30 per cent of the number, so that they can become equipped with capacities to help themselves and the society after the Boko Haram terrorists are finally defeated. He added that the next phase of the training will be for those of them that would want to pursue alternative livelihood. “They will be given skill acquisition training for six to 12 months. We have about 35 packages of skill acquisition for them including: agriculture, animal husbandry, automobile services, computer training, leather work, GSM repairs, embroidery/knitting and tailoring, among many others,” he said. According to Bwalya, “Beneficiaries and the stakeholders of our various programmes in the North-east region are attesting to the positive impacts of UNDP programmes during our consultation meetings with stakeholders in the region in the build up to the Lake Chad Basin Governors’ Forum held in Maiduguri in May 2018. They remarked that our interventions have brought optimism and hope to the IDPs. “The CJTF/Vigilante programme was commended for re-energizing and capacitating participants to perform their community security services professionally and dutifully. We assure everyone in the region that we are going to support you to achieve your hopes and aspirations off living a quality and social and economic viable life.” Thanking UNDP for constituting a reliable partner at building peace in in their states, in Nigeria and across the world, representatives of the three states at the event pledged the commitment of their states to supporting UNDP and CLTC, and indeed all that are committed to peace building. They charged participants to go back and become ambassadors of peace in their various communities.