James Emejo in Abuja There are indications that the House of Representatives will investigate the concession agreement of the new National Carrier, Nigeria Air. The indication emerged after a motion on the subject surfaced on the agenda of the green chamber Thursday. It was listed as item number five. The motion, sponsored by Hon. Dennis Agbo, demanded for the setting up of an ad-hoc committee to investigate the process of concession of the national carrier and ensure the selection of a credible core investor with a view to avoiding any failure, losses or embarrassment to the nation. Agbo had taken into cognisance, the recent attempt to revive the national carrier by Minister of State for Aviation, Hon. Haidi Sirika, who has obtained a conditional Certificate of Compliance along with the Outline Business Case (OBC) from the Infrastructure Concession and Regulatory Commission (ICRC). He expressed worry that due to alleged questionable manner the process was carried out, the arrangement might fail again and bring the nation avoidable losses and embarrassment. He said while ICRC, in the conditional certificate stated that the process should be at zero investment and management interference by government, the Federal Ministry of Transport had already indicated an initial requirement of $8.8 million and another $300 million for purchase of aircraft by December 2018, which were not included in the 2018 budget. He also said the ministry had equally gone ahead to organise a roadshow scheduled for Thursday (today) in London. The motion further raised concern that the ministry had proceeded with the process in such a curious, hastened and in complete disregard of the pre-conditions in the OBC by ICRC which is charged with ensuring integrity and favourable outcome of any concession of national assets. However, the motion was stepped down and deferred to a future date because Agbo was not in the chamber when it was mentioned for consideration by House Speaker, Hon. Yakubu Dogara.