By Seriki Adinoyi in Jos Communities recently attacked in Barkin Ladi, Riyom, Jos North and Jos South Local Government Areas of Plateaui State, where over 200 persons were killed by suspected herders, have thrown their weight behind Governor Simon Lalong’s call against land grabbing, vowing not to abandon their ancestrial lands for the attackers who are hell bent on displacing them. This is even as Plateau elites, comprising scholars and researchers in the states, have decried the politicisation of the attacks, lamenting that rather than uniting to form a common front against external forces bedeviling the state, politicians have hijacked the crisis for cheap personal gains. Addressing journalists in Jos, APC leaders of the affected communities led by Architect Pam Dung Gyang however frowned on the mobiolisation of people from diverse shades under whatever guise to perpetrate crime and engage in lawlessness like forceful invasion of Government House and attack on the Governor, who was on a huimanitarian visit. “Violence has never been an acceptable way of conflict resolution and it contravenes all known human conventions; therefore we call on relevant government agencies to ensure that those who are culpable in disturbing the peace of the land are made to face the maximum punitive measures prescribed by the extant laws so as to send a strong warning to anyone who may be wickedly misled to tow this path of savagery in future. “We painfully consider ourselves as victims of the same circumstances but what these trying times encourage is that we find solace in ourselves as being partners in progress of the Plateau project. Sadly, we notice a veiled threat to this unity by words and utterances of a certain group of people who have chosen to misrepresent the facts of the remote and immediate causes of these unfortunate happenings by rather giving it an ethnic coloration all in an attempt to ostracise these three local governments and deny them the opportunity for a continued political participation.  “As equal stake holders in the Plateau project, we frown at the politicisation of security challenges and the seeming veiled threats of isolating these Local Governments due to the ugly post-attacks incidences, we say this with clarity and no fear of contradiction that as a peace loving people, we do not support community insulation of crime and criminality and we have a responsibility to continue being good hosts to all shades of constituted authority whose seats have by didn’t of administration been cited on our land.  “We welcome pronouncements of the Governor to the effect that no piece of Plateau State land, as owned legally by her citizens will be annexed or taken away by any land grabber. We also commend efforts of security agencies that have stood out by arresting suspects who carried out these attacks and look forward to a more bumper harvest of arrests as promised; we are comforted by the fact that the Governor is pushing for their trial to be conducted here in Plateau State.” At another press conference in Jos, the elites, who said they were grieved over the resurgence of attacks in the state after three years of consistent peace, vehemently condemned it. Led by the chairman of the forum, Professor Danladi Atu, the group said: “One striking feature of our strength as a people lies largely on the commonalities of our cultural values and practices. Indeed, all the fifty four (54) ethnic nationalities have been cohabiting peacefully in this territory since the pre-colonial era as polynomial communities with none so assertive enough to overwhelm the others. “Unfortunately, the geometric magnitude of the growth and development of the state so experienced was being thwarted by intermittent and sporadic violent conflicts of different forms in the past two decades. These sporadic upheavals witnessed between 1994, and 2018 retrogressively took us backward on the ladder of progress. This trend saw many sister and younger States overtaking us in realistic terms of development. “But with the coming on board of this administration, we had thought that we have overcome the challenges posed by these sporadic violent conflicts in view of the measures put in place by the present administration to address the issues headlong. “These include, running a government of inclusiveness, fair and equitable spread of projects and instituting veritable platforms, for peace building in the State to promote peaceful co-existence. “The resurgence of these ugly and dreaded violent conflicts again after three years of lull and abyss calls for deeper and sincere reflections by well-meaning Plateau people. “Lamenting the criminalities perpetrated under the guise of Farmer-Herder conflicts, such as armed banditry; settling of personnel scores amongst groups and individuals, cattle rustling, land grabbing, security impersonation, the group lent its voice on the need to review the security architecture of the country, emphasising need for Governors to be empowered constitutionally to oversee the security agencies of their respective states. The group also condemned wave of attacks “in the name of ‘reprisal’ and counter reprisal. This practice is condemnable because the laws of the land do not permit taking them into our hands with sole aim of reprisal. “It is even more worrisome to listen to the travails the survivors of this carnage went through. It includes asking them to speak a particular language, or dialect, cultural or religious background. “As peace loving people therefore, we are advising conflict merchants to desist from further deliberate attacks on our people in the name of farmer-herder upheavals.  We are calling on our security agencies to intensify efforts at fishing out the perpetrators of this evil and dastardly act so as to serve as deterrent to others in future.”