Omololu Ogubmade in Abuja Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed, has said that the battle of wits between the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, and the Minister of Labour, Employment and Productivity, Chris Ngige, would be amicably resolved. Answering questions on the rift while briefing journalists at the end of the weekly Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting in the State House on Wednesday, Mohammed said if it is confirmed that both men are indeed engaged in a fight, the matter would be accordingly resolved. Both Oshiomhole and Ngige have engaged each other in a battle for supremacy over the failure of the latter to constitute the board of the National Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) to be chaired by Comrade Frank Kokori. Oshiomhole accused Ngige of flouting the earlier directive of President Muhammadu Buhari that all boards of parastatals should be constituted and consequently gave him a seven-day ultimatum last week to carry out the directive or face the music. Upon the expiration of the ultimatum this week, Oshiomhole threatened to expel Ngige and any other minister found culpable in a similar act from the party and equally force them out of the cabinet. But in a swift reaction, Ngige said Oshiomhole was ignorant of the development in the ministry and he would not accede to the APC chairman’s directive until corruption issues in the agency had been resolved. Asked therefore on reaction of government to the issue, Mohammed said the accusation ascribed to the minister could be fake news but if found to be true, the rift between them would be settled. “Two weeks ago, we launched a campaign against fake news and it’s one of the most dangerous phenomenal we have today. We don’t know who said what until and until we know and the ministers confirm these statements credited to them. It is really difficult to comment on it. What I can assure you of, is that if there is any problem between the party chairman and any of our ministers, it will be resolved,” Mohammed said. Also reacting to the question, the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, said the comment credited to the minister could be fake news, stating that only Tuesday, there was fake news on the social media credited to him, where he was quoted as attacking Oshiomhole, which he said he never did. “How do you know that it’s true. I saw on social media this afternoon (Wednesday) where they said l said that the chairman is a bad luck. I never said so. I have never said any such thing. They quoted me that l was attacking the chairman,” Amaechi said.