Nseobong Okon-Ekong and Segun James write that the signing of the Executive Order No. 6 by President Muhammadu Buhari has raised a storm It caught the legislators of Nigerian National Assembly flatfooted. To them, it is a coup carried out by to render them useless and make them toothless bull dogs that can only bark but cannot bite. Allowing this will make a mess of the check and balances among the three tiers of government in the political system we have adopted. They are ready to fight the action of the President to a standstill. A battle front has opened. For the federal government, corruption has been running riot in the country without control. The fight against it is the primary agenda of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, but unfortunately, the legislature has been an hindrance in this battle; hence the need to issue an executive order to sidestep the obstacles caused by the National Assembly. The cause of the rift is the Presidential Executive Order (PEO) N0 6 of 2018 which according to its provision sets out to address “the Preservation of Suspicious Assets Connected with Corruption and Other Relevant Offences.” In the presidential system of government, Executive orders are presidential prerogative used as a last resort by the president to bypass the national assembly, when the president is pushed to the wall he uses it. Though Vice President Yemi Osinbajo signed some Executive Orders when President Muhammadu Buhari was away on sick leave, Executive Order No. 6 that is now generating much furor between the executive and the legislative arms of government. On May 18, 2017, he signed three Eos. The three executive orders were meant to significantly change some of the ways government business and operations were conducted in the country. The executive orders also stipulate sanctions and punitive measures meant to address violations where necessary. Specifically, Prof. Osinbajo signed executive orders giving specific instructions on a number of policy issues affecting: *the promotion of transparency and efficiency in the business environment designed to facilitate the ease of doing business in the country, *support for local contents in public procurement by the Federal Government, and *timely submission of annual budgetary estimates by all statutory and non-statutory agencies, including companies owned by the Federal Government. Transparency in MDAs Default Approvals One Government Directive Entry Experience of Visitors and Travellers Port Operations Registration of Businesses What is the order all about and why is the legislature suddenly up in arms against the executive? More importantly, what is it that makes the PEO No. 6 so peculiar to the point that the national assembly is ready to do battle with the executive? These are some of the questions begging for answers as the faceoff between the two arms continues. According to the former chairman of the National Human Rights Commission, Prof. Anselm Odinkalu, “Its contents fall into two categories: those things in it which are not needless or are manifestly outside the powers of the President. At best, it’s an own goal. At worst, it’s an awful advertisement of presidential hubris and overreach.” Presidential Executive Order No. 6 comprises a preamble, seven sections, two schedules and five essential features. First, it begins with an acknowledgement that, “corruption constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the well-being, national security and stability of the country’s political and economic systems.” The PEO also purports, “without prejudice to any laws or existing suits” to “protect from dissipation” the “assets of any Nigerian citizen within the territory of the Federal Republic of Nigeria…. known to be a current or former government official” or a politically exposed person, who is or has been “complicit in or has… engaged in corrupt practices.” Third, PEO No. 6 designates in the first schedule to the Order, specific cases and persons to whom it applies. In particular, the PEO takes 10 pages to list 155 pending court cases covered by it. The named cases cover such persons as former Inspector-General of Police, Sunday Ehindero; ex-Abia State Governor, Orji Kalu; ex-Adamawa State Governor, Murtala Nyako; ex-Benue State Governor, Gabriel Suswam; ex-Zamfara State Governor, Sani Yarima; ex-Katsina State Governor, Ibrahim Shema; ex-Sokoto State Governor, Attahiru Bafarawa; ex-Jigawa States Governors, Saminu Turaki and Sule Lamido; ex-Niger State Governor, Babangida Aliyu; ex-Oyo State Governors, Rasheed Ladoja and Alao-Akala; ex-Ogun State Governor, Gbenga Daniel; ex-Enugu State Governor, Chimaroke Nnamani, ex-Kebbi State Governor, Dakingari and former National Security Adviser, Sambo Dasuki. Also listed are cases involving some dead persons such as former Nassarawa State Governor, Aliyu Akwe Doma and the recently deceased former Chief Judge of Enugu State, Innocent Umezulike. In effect, the President seeks through this Order to direct judges on what to do in cases before them. Fourth, PEO No. 6 confers on the Attorney-General of the Federation, the “power to co-ordinate the implementation of this Order”. Additionally enforcement agencies named in the Order are required to communicate the outcomes of their investigations to the Attorney-General so that he can “immediately commence or direct the commencement of appropriate process(es) either administratively or judicially as the case may be.” The powers of enforcement agencies, such as the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) or the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) are clearly spelt out in the laws. Under the constitution, the Attorney-General clearly has powers to take over or terminate prosecutions but there is nothing that requires the agencies to wait on him for initiative. Fifth, PEO No. 6 purports to wield a big stick and provides that heads of 20 agencies named in the second schedule to the Order, “shall take personal responsibility and be subject to appropriate sanctions for any failure to comply with this order.” The threat of sanctions in this way cannot, however, cure the underlying unlawfulness in the powers that the President seeks to assert. This threat is empty. Finally, the PEO extends the scope of corruption to cover “other relevant offences”, including “terrorism, financing of terrorism, kidnapping and sponsorship of ethnic or religious violence, economic sabotage, cases of economic and financial crimes”, and to a very nebulous category of “acts contributing to the economic adversity of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” To most critics of the order, the president overreached himself by giving such orders which practically gives him unlimited powers, a situation which will make almost every Nigerian open to blackmail and the process subject to abuse. Odinkalu insisted that the problem is that the determination whether or not a person is complicit in corrupt practices is the business of judges not of presidents. “It follows evidence not fantasy. The judiciary also has powers to easily protect from dissipation any assets covered by pending prosecution. When President Buhari ventures into this territory, he clearly forgets he can no longer rule by military decree. “Again, whoever advised President Buhari that it is within his powers to issue such an order served him very poorly indeed. If he so advised himself, then he suffers from terrible misapprehensions about both his station, the scope of his powers and about his constitutional literacy.” But the Federal Government has said that the Executive Order No. 6 signed by President Muhammadu Buhari is not only constitutional but in accordance with the powers vested in the President under Section 5 of the 1999 Constitution. Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, insisted there was nothing ambiguous about the Executive Order No. 6 except that the corrupt persons and their allies are mortally afraid because it will ensure that justice is done, and done expeditiously. Mohammed said the President hoped the new law would help the country’s anti-corruption agencies carry out their duties better. He views the vehement opposition to EO No. 6, as corruption fighting back. In simple tense, he thinks that if there is a contention concerning how one acquired wealth, government simply wants to hold on to it, until it is conclusively proven then the embargo is removed and the party can access his money. One of the pillars of this administration is the fight against corruption. Remember that the President said some time ago that he knows over 300 Nigerians who are richer that Africa’s acknowledged richest man, Dr. Aliko Dangote, but whose source of wealth is suspect. These people are not into manufacturing or service industry. These are the kind of people who should worry about the EO. “The Executive Order 6 restricts dealings in suspicious assets subject to investigation or inquiries bordering on corruption in order to preserve such assets from dissipation, and to deprive alleged criminals of the proceeds of their illicit activities, which can otherwise be employed to allure, pervert and/or intimidate the investigative and judicial processes.” He advised those opposed to the order to save their energy and go to court, adding that the Federal Government cannot and will not be intimidated by the antics of opposition to its anti-graft war.