By Emma Okonji The National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) has imposed a fine of N500,000 on the Daar Communications Group. The Director General Mallam Is’haq Modibbo Kawu, who made the disclosure, said the decision to fine the broadcasting house, was sequel to the persistent and flagrant infringement of the provisions of the Nigeria Broadcasting Code through the use of provocative, inflammatory and divisive comments by anchors on a Raypower programme known as‘Political platform.‘ This came after the Commission shut down indefinitely, the Ekiti Radio Station for the abuse of broadcast, during the Ekiti State gubernatorial elections. The Commission had on 2nd May, 2017, 15th August, 2017 and 7th February, 2018 held meetings with staff of Daar Communications and on each occasion, the NBC Director General, Mallam Is’haq Modibbo Kawu,had expressed concern on the unprofessional manner anchor persons have been handling the programme. He charged the team on all occasions to be fair and balanced in their reportage devoid of expression of personal opinions. He had also at the last meeting on 7th February, 2018, sounded a warning to Daar Communications to ensure compliance in order to avoid sanctions. Political Platform’s episode of Tuesday, 24th July, 2018, was marked by sensational and heated expression of opinion by its anchors, who went on to make unproven and inciting allegations, the NBC stated. According to a statement released by the Commission and signed by its Head, Public Affairs, Mrs. Maimuna Jimada, “For the avoidance of doubt, Kawu hereby draws the attention of all, to the following provisions of the Nigeria Broadcasting Code: Section 1.9.3: A presenter/anchor shall not express his or her personal opinion in the programme. “Section 5.2.7: A broadcaster shall, in using political material for news, avoid taking inflammatory and divisive matter in its provocative form. “Section 5.2.5: Political broadcasts shall be in decent language. Section 3.1.3: The broadcaster shall recognise expression as an agent of society, therefore, he shall not use his medium for any personal or sectional rights, privileges and needs of his own, proprietor, relatives, friends or supports. “Section 3.3.2: A broadcaster shall acknowledge his or her own inherent  biases and prejudices, and transparently rise above subjective mind-set. Section 3.3.3: All sides to any issue of public interest shall be equitably presented to ensure fairness and balance. Section 4.5.1: No individual or organisation shall be treated in an unjust or unfair manner in any programme. “Section 5.2.18: While a broadcast producer may interact with politicians in the course of his professional duties, this shall not be such, as to lead to the belief, that he is either a member or sympathizer of any political party.” Kawu warned that the Commission would impose severe sanctions for any breach of the Broadcasting Code, and called on broadcasting stations to ensure that anchors of their programmes were well informed and properly trained on the ethics of the profession as well as the provisions of the Nigeria Broadcasting Code. 