Monday Discourse Nseobong Okon-Ekong, Segun James and Shola Oyeyipo interrogate the basis for boldness of the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who appear not to be disturbed by the mass defection of its erstwhile members It does not look like anything can save the All Progressives Party (APC) from a continuous slide into the conundrum of anarchy as high profile members continue to decamp from the party in droves. The burst bubble did not happen overnight, it took several days of back and forth talks, missed deadlines; public and private discussions and finally, outrage. The APC is finally unhinged, barely six months to the 2019 general election. Is this going to have a damaging effect on the party’s chances in the election? Only time can tell. Left to President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Chairman of the party, Mr. Adams Oshiomhole, there is nothing to fret about. To them, the exit of Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State, 14 senators and 37 House of Representatives members who hitherto owed alllegiance to the APC is no big deal. While Buhari bid them farewell, Oshiomhole was not as charitable. He emphasised that “these people have no electoral value.” What is the confidence of the President and the Party Chief based on? Nobody knows. Will Oshiomhole’s words come true? Happenings in the next few weeks will determine. After the relative optimism of last year, the situation in the APC has deteriorated badly. The reconciliation committee headed by former Lagos State Governor and National Leader of the party, Senator Bola Tinubu has not been able to make any headway. What is the way forward for the party and how did the party get to this point where it is struggling for survival, from the lofty position of being the party in control at the centre? Under normal circumstances, a public power struggle between the President and the leadership of the National Assembly should leave the legislators with a bloody nose. But this is politics where the expected can end in the unexpected. Following several peace overtures from the party leadership to appease aggrieved members, the President certainly was not expecting this level of grave reaction of the National Assembly members, let alone that of Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue state who became the first governor to leave the APC. As at the time the president signed the Presidential Executive Order (PEO) N0 6, the believe was that it was intended to rein-in the recalcitrant lawmakers, especially from his party, who have been more loyal to the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki than to President Buhari and the APC leadership. However, Buhari is not without supporters in the Senate. His admirers in the Upper House are led by Senators Ovie Omo-Agege and Abdullahi Adamu But the move backfired when the new Peoples Democratic Party (nPDP), one of the original amalgams of the APC indicated that it was being pushed out of the party. They warned that they would leave the APC unless reforms were made to accommodate them. There request for a direct audience with Buhari fell on deaf ears. A couple of fruitless meetings with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo followed. This was the situation when the APC held its conventions across the country. Expectedly, parallel meetings were held in 24 out of the 36 states of the federation. It was a clear and telling sign that all was not well. At the APC National Conventional, the division was glaring as contending factions fought openly for supremacy. It was not a surprise, therefore, when the, another group which styled itself the reformed All Progressives Congress (rAPC) soon reared its head making threats similar to those of the nPDP. The former APC stalwarts were undaunted in their battle as the party continued to make blunders. However, from all indications, the President and the party leadership are not scared. With the confidence that they are showing, they may have some ace up their sleeves, which they are not willing to reveal, for now. Though depleted in number from its former controlling position, the APC continues to hold a slim majority at every strata of governance. The party still has the highest number of senators, house of representative mebers and governors. As the saying goes, when two elephants fight, the grass suffers. This is the situation in the APC right now as the race towards 2019 election which is just six months away has started. Exploiting section 68 Prominent Lagos lawyer, Mr. Yinka Farounbi, does not believe that there is a lacuna that politicians are relying to cross carpet and yet evade punishment. To him, section 68(1)(g) provides a way out for those jumping from one party to another. He explained, “I do not think there is a lacuna. The constitution is clear, but it is the same the same constitution that says if you cross-carpet, your seat must be declared vacant. It is the same constitution that gave conditions under which they can cross carpet and there will be no sanctions. “And in which case, the fundamental thing is, is there crisis within the party? And definitely, all of them that have been cross carpeting have been citing one crisis or the other and if you look at it, there is no way they will not be covered by those crisis. “The problem we have in this country is that we have political parties without ideologies and we have individuals who do not have the interest of the nation at heart and they can afford to cross at will. “I would have loved a situation that an amendment is done to the constitution to the effect that once you cross carpet,  your seat must be declared vacant. Because you were in the first instance elected as a member of the National Assembly due to the political party that you belonged. “Once you’re no longer a member of the political party, it should be automatic, your seat should be declared vacant. Then in that wise, you will be able to open your eyes wide before you leap. If you want to join a political party, you will look at it very well. Is this the right party for me to join? Once you join one, you should sink or float with that party. “An amendment to the constitution, I think will do us a lot of good, because the issue of cross carpeting has been bastardised and reduced to personal ego and personal benefits.” Another legal luminary, Mr. Akinwale Ojo, said: “The Supreme Court had interpreted that section and held that they should issue their seat vacant. And if you look at that interpretation, which is liberal and straight forward, you will see that there is a problem as regards cross carpeting, which will make them lose their position as members of the National Assembly. But if you look at this decision in the case of Hon. Ifedayo Abegunde and you look at the proviso – because if you are looking at the constitution you should look at it holistically. If you look at what is happening, we have the APC, which is divided and we have those who have segregated themselves at the national level and I believe that this is what is giving them the hope that when it comes to litigation, they can rely on the proviso that says “provided that his membership of the latter party is not as a result of a division in the political party in which he was previously a member or a merger of two or more political parties, or faction by one which he was previously sponsored. “So, if he was sponsored by a political party and there is a division; the reason Abegunde lost that case was because there was no division in the Labour Party (LP) at the national level. Here, we see there is a division in a political party and the person decided to join another political party,  so they are being encouraged by the section. “Section 68 is not new. That proviso I mentioned now, we have it in section 69 of 1963 Constitution and it is also repeated in 1999, now as amended. Even 1979 constitution, section 64 also has this proviso. It is not a lacuna, but the proviso has given you reason. In all the sections it is only ‘g’ that has that provision and that has no remedy. “If they can bring evidence in the ruling party that there is fighting – that there is a division in the ruling party at the national level and they can hide under this provision once there is a division in the political party. Because of this proviso, I can cross carpet to another political party and the reason is that the person shouldn’t continue to stay in a burning bush. You cannot be sitting down in a house that is full of fire or you cannot be sitting down on a keg of gun powder and be playing with matches. “So, in that case, you have a moral justification to say I want to leave a troubled zone for a safe one. It is not that there is a lacuna. The law is also apt. You can’t add anything or remove. The liberal interpretation is that provided that your membership of that later party is as a result of the division in the political party of which he was previously a member or sponsored. “So, if there is a division in the ruling party at national level, not at the state or ward levels, and you know INEC and the courts have said there is no division, we must recognise that, but once there is division, if I like I can now join the other faction, because that is what the constitution is saying. There is a gateway to get out without loosing your seat.” Mr. Onyekachi Ubani, on his part, was of the opinion that the Indian constitution can effectively address the culture of cross carpeting. According to him, “I will recommend the method that is used in the Indian constitution. The Indian constitution is very explicit. It says anybody who has been elected under a particular political platform should not join another political party. It didn’t give room for it that ‘unless there is a crisis or trouble in the political party you are coming from,’ and so, if you go to India today, the rate of cross carpeting is extremely low because of the provision of the constitution. The Nigerian constitution says, “you cannot cross, but once there is crisis you can cross.” So people can engineer crisis.  There is no political party in Nigeria today that does not have one crisis or the other. So, what they used is that there is crisis in the party. “You can see that Saraki is fighting Buhari. You can see that Dogara is fighting his governor. They can just stir a crisis and jump to another party, which is what they would say when the issue gets to court. “And mind you, it is a matter of the proceedings of the court. You know our procedure is so long. Before you will succeed in getting that matter determined, they would have enjoyed the benefit. And they would have moved to another political party in another election. The judgment would now be academic. “We should remove that clause that says unless there is crisis. Let us state clearly that, “no political party member should jump to another if elected under a political platform.” Defectors to watch Rabiu Kwakwanso (Kano) Rabiu Kwakwanso A two-term governor of Kano State, a former presidential aspirant on the APC platform in the last presidential primary, which saw him coming second after the incumbent president Buhari, the eventual winner. Kwakwanso is not a novice in Nigerian politics. Considering the large        following he enjoys in the north which is evidenced by the wide acceptance of his political platform – Kwakwansiya Movement. He unarguably would give the APC a run for their money in the coming elections, especially if he chooses to contest the presidency. Dino Melaye  (Kogi) Senator representing of Kogi West, is undoubtedly a factor in Kogi politics. The widely perceived persecution and victimisation of his person and his kind of politics, which seems to be giving him sentimental support within the Kogi West senatorial district may work against the APC. It is however worthy of note that Senator Melaye has continued to put his state in global news. It will be easy for Dino to draw the state back to the PDP basically because of the less than impressive performance of the Governor Yahaya Bello-led administration. Suleiman Hunkuyi (Kaduna) Suleiman Hunkuyi (Kaduna-North), is not a push over in Kaduna State politics. He is one of those who have been at loggerheads with Governor Ahmed El-Rufai. While he has maintained that the governor has not been fair to Kaduna State, he has vowed to “do everything possible” to vote him out in 2019. In fact, there are indications that Hunkuyi, might be contesting the Kaduna governorship seat in 2019. By crossing to the PDP, there is no doubt that APC’s fortune have been negatively affected. Usman Nafada (Gombe) Nafada, former member of the Gombe House of Assembly for the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) from 1999 till 2003. He rose to become Speaker. He had been the Assistant State Auditor of Gombe State. He was elected to the House of Representatives in 2003 as an ANPP candidate for Dukku/Nafada, but he later joined the PDP before joining the APC. With his relevance in the Gombe State politics, he would be expected to attract votes for the PDP in the state. Ibrahim Dambaba (Sokoto) Ibrahim Dambaba, is by every means committed to the decision to quit the APC. He has vowed never to return to the ruling party, he has also assured the people that his supporters are coming with him to the PDP. Mohammed Shittu (Jigawa) Senator Muhammad Ubali Shittu  representing Jigawa North East senatorial district has also joined the defectors Isa Misau (Bauchi) The senator representing Bauchi Central senatorial zone, Isah Misau, has been at daggers drawn with the federal government. The FG filed two separate fraud charges against the lawmaker and he has maintained that he is being persecuted by the authorities for revealing corrupt acts done by the Inspector General of Police, IGP, Ibrahim Idris. His cross carpeting to the PDP will provide him ample opportunity to get his pound of flesh from his former party. This is more so that his district and state have the opinion that he is being persecuted. Suleiman Nazif (Bauchi) Ranked among the 11 youngest lawmakers in the Senate, that both Nazif and Misau – both from Bauchi State left the APC spells doom for the APC in the state. Shaaba Lafiagi (Kwara) Former Kwara State governor, Senator Shaaba Lafiagi, though a political ally  of the Senate President, Dr. Saraki, but his grip and acceptance in Kwara North, cannot be over emphasised. Apparently working hand in glove with Saraki, it is obvious that Kwara will be a no-go-area for the APC in 2019 Barnabas Gemade (Benue) For Barnabas Gemade, one time National Chairman of the PDP, returning to his party is just like a bird going back home to roost. Very easily, Gemade will not only work with Governor Sam Orthom to return to mainstream in the PDP, he would be spreading his tentacles in the North Central region. It will be easy for Gemade and Ortom to canvass the people of the state against the APC in the sense that their people have been most hit by herdsmen attacks. Senator Abdul-Azeez Murtala-Nyako (Adamawa) Son of former governor Murtala Nyako, Abdul-Azeez Nyako, who is a senator representing Adamawa Central Senatorial District, left the ruling APC with the teeming supporters of his father, on the allegation of marginalisation. Working with his father and former vice president, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, who is already signifying readiness to contest the 2019 presidencies, the APC is not sure of victory in Adamawa State.