David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka A priest with the Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion), Reverend Maxwell Ogazi has raised the alarm over the rampant sale of babies in Anambra State by some operators of orphanage homes. Ogazi condemned the trend at a session with the media at the weekend after three cases of theft and sales of babies were reported in one week to the Anambra State police Command by parents who lost their children. Two children of the same parents; Chidera and Kamsiyochukwu Iloka had last week disappeared from a school in Amawbia, a suburb of Awka.
It was also report to the police command last week that another student, Nmachukwu Ebiowu was abducted at Ogbaru during her school’s graduation party. Ebiowu was lured from his school’s graduation party with sweets and biscuits by a man who confessed after he was caught that he was paid N50, 000 to bring a child by a syndicate dealing in child theft. Consequent upon these incidents, Ogazi lamented that the rate at which people “are abducting children in Anambra has reached an alarming rate.” Ogazi, currently Christian Compassionate Community Children’s Home, lamented that the incidents were usually carried out under the guise of adoption by people who pose as childless couples. Ogazi explained that the current proliferation of illegal orphanages through which modern slavery “is perpetrated in the society is high. “Babies should not be sold to foster parents but should be given out for adoption free of charge, so long as those taking them can take care of them,” he said. The priest observed that running of orphanages should be purely on charity grounds, noting that every orphanage home should be registered with the appropriate government ministry for periodic checks. He lamented that the high rate of sales of children was caused by a lot of people operating their orphanages as business ventures across the state. According to him, these people sell children like goods, even without the knowledge of Child Development Department of the State Ministry of Women and Children Affairs which is in charge of monitoring orphanages. Ogazi explained that he had been running his orphanage for a long time, noting that it “is duly registered with the Child Development Department. “In my case, I runs orphanage strictly as a charity organisation. In some case, some mothers drop off their children before proceeding for work. I do not run a charity home where people come to buy babies.
He added that running an orphanage was a tasking job, which he said, depended on charity for survival, but those indulged in child theft were the ones making huge money from it.