Finland top table tennis star and winner of 2016 edition of ITTF Challenge Nigeria Open, Benedek Olah, wednesday declared his intention to rule at the forth coming edition which comes up next month in Lagos. Last year his quest to retain the tittle short lived when he failed measure up with his podium place in debut appearance.
However, Olah has indeed enjoyed every of his visit to the commercial nerve centre of Nigeria, Lagos and the 27-year-old is always willing to return. “The audience during the matches is something to always look forward to and enjoy. Also the fans are willing to show emotions and make some noise during competitive rally in matches. Nigeria Open is special compared to what obtains in Europe. The lack of backhand by the players is heavily compensated with forehand with a lot of spin coupled with good footwork. Also I see that their backhand services are also different to what we were used to in Europe,” Benedek Olah admitted. With the qualities of players heading to Nigeria this year, the Finnish said: “I am in better form than last year but this year the tournament seems harder with better players which I find super cool. Also the hotel accommodation is very amazing with good food. The audience is always lively, while the venue is always full to capacity from the first day and this is what you don’t see in Europe.” With a firm belief in his ability to reclaim the title, Benedek Olah said: “The Nigeria Open is very special to be because it was there I won my first international title. I am always willing to return because the condition is good for me to win and it is not the same like other tournaments. I also meet some new friends and it is always nice to come back and see them.”
“It is always very hard competition but it is a good atmosphere for any player to excel, I must also admit that Europe is nothing compared to Nigeria in terms of the atmosphere at the venue,” he added. Benedek Olah is hoping to clinch two titles this year but said: “It is never the same every year but anything can happen.”