CAF CONFED By Femi Solaja Nigeria’s lone surviving team in continental club competition this season, Enyimba FC of Aba, risks elimination from the CAF Confederation Cup following a 2-0 defeat the team suffered yesterday at Williamville FC of Côte d Ivoire. The result of the Match-day 4 fixture played at the Stade Robert Champroux in Abidjan returned Williamville FC to the summit of Group C while former leader, Enyimba, slides to the third place. CARA Brazzaville that won the group’s other match against Djoliba FC 1-0 at the Stade Alphonse Massemba-Debat to stay on the second spot on the log. Williamville is leading with seven points, just one point better than Congo Republic’s CARA Brazzaville with Enyimba third on account of head-to-head rule following the 3-0 defeat of the Nigerian side earlier in the round robin tournament. In yesterday’s match in Abidjan, both teams launched attacks in the opening stages of the game, but it was Enyimba, who dominated possession as they searched for an early goal. Ibrahim Mustapha saw his shot miss the target in the 13th minute, before he was denied by Williamsville’ goalkeeper Boris Mandjui seven minutes later. The hosts then took control of the game and they registered their first shot on target on the half-hour mark when Jean N’da Koussi forced Enyimba keeper Fatau Dauda into a save. Williamsville again broke the deadlock through N’da Koussi, who beat Dauda with a powerful shot to make it 1-0 to the hosts in the 31st minute after bursting into the Enyimba’s vital area. The momentum was the home side with the halftime break fast approaching and they nearly doubled their lead in the 35th minute. Djedje Dagrou, who was looking lively for Williamsville, missed the target from close range with Dauda rooted to the ground as Enyimba survived a scare. Williamsville defender Kouassi Attohoula pushed forward and he unleashed a powerful long range effort which went just over the crossbar in the 39th minute. However, Enyimba then stood firm until match referee Redouane Jiyed blew the halftime whistle and Williamsville were leading 1-0 at the interval. Williamsville were able to contain Enyimba in the early stages of the second-half with Serge Yameogo working tirelessly in defence. Enyimba coach Usman Abdallah reacted by introducing Freedom Omofoma in the 56th minute as the visitors looked to level matters. However, the visitors were struggling to penetrate the Williamsville defence which was marshalled by Yameogo. The central defender then scored with a header from Stephen Ettien’s corner-kick to make it 1-0 to Williamsville much to the delight of the home crowd with 14 minutes left. The hosts then controlled possession in the closing stages of the game with Enyimba doing most of the defending. The Nigerian representative, in the next match will be away to Djoliba of Mali on August 19th while they wrap up their group campaign at home to CARA Brazzaville eight days later. Two teams will qualify into the next round of the tournament.