The Management of Zenith Bank Plc has charged the Team Nigeria athletes preparing for the forthcoming African Senior Athletics Championship to go all out and make Nigeria proud at the event which starts on Monday in Asaba, Delta State. Group Managing Director of the bank, Peter Amangbo, said that it was important that Team Nigeria athletes put up a great performance at the continental event. He stressed that the bank would continue to always support sports as part of its social responsibility to Nigerian youths and the country in general. Amangbo said: “We have always been very supportive to sports and so we decided to also do so with this athletics championship to enable Delta State to be a good host and also to give the country’s athletes an enabling environment to excel. “This is an opportunity for the athletes to show their potential against the rest of Africa. We urge them to work hard and go all out for gold medal so that they make the country proud.” Zenith Bank Plc led donors at the fund raising event recently with N300m while Bube Dan gave N20m, Levant Construction N20m, Gomene N11m, Delta State House of Assembly N7m, Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development N5m, among others. Some corporate organisations and individuals made their donations anonymously. Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, his wife, Dame Okowa, Deputy Governor Kingsley Otuaro, Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori, LOC Chairman Solomon Ogba, his deputy Tony Okowa, Minister of Sports, Solomon Dalung, President of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN), Ibrahim Shehu Gusau, among numerous others attended the fundraising. Top athletes like Blessing Okagbare, Ese Brume, Divine Oduduru, Tobi Amusan, Queen Obisesan, Seye Ogunlewe, Kelechi Nwanaga and Mike Edwards are some of the top athletes that will represent Team Nigeria. South Africa’s Caster Semanya along with compatriot, Akani Simbine, will also be in Asaba while Cote d’ Ivoire’s duo of Marie Jose Ta Lou and Murielle Ahoure are battle ready for the competition. World and Olympic Champion in javelin, Julius Yego, is also expected to be at the African Championship. Meanwhile, Kenya is hoping to hit it big in the sprint events of the African Senior Athletics Championships in Asaba. Kenya’s 100 meters trio of African Games silver medalist, Eunice Kadogo, national champion Joan Cherono and Fresha Mwangi, are all looking forward to an exciting time at CAA Asaba 2018. Aside from finishing on the podium, the Kenyan sprinters have also highlighted their desire to improve their personal best times in Asaba. While Kadogo, who is also the Kenya national 200m champion, and Cherono will double in 100m and 200m, Mwangi will only compete in 100m. The trio will represent Kenya in 4 x100m where they will be joined by Millicent Ndoro. Outside Nigeria, Cote d’Ivoire and South Africa are also other formidable sprint forces the Kenyans are hoping to topple in Asaba. “I want to reclaim my national 100m record and improve my personal best in 200m,” Kadogo, 24 was quoted as saying in Kenyan news outlet The Daily Nation. “My speed take off from the blocks and finishing power have improved and I am good to go.” She added. At the Delegates Registration Meeting (DRM) in Asaba, an official of Team Kenya, Abraham Mutai reiterated that they are taking the Africa Senior Athletics Championships dubbed “Asaba 2018” very seriously as they are plotting to emerge the overall champion in the five-day event. Kenya finished just behind South Africa in the 2016 edition in Durban but with the strong squad they are coming with to Asaba, they are confident they can go one step further this time. Already, the city of Asaba is agog awaiting the arrival of Africa’s best athletes who will be competing not just for medals at the biennial championships but for places in the continent’s team to the Inter-continental Cup in Ostrava.