James Emejo in Abuja The Convener/spokesman of the Parliamentary Support Group, Hon. Abdulmumin Jibrin (APC, Kano), Thursday claimed that some of the All Progressives Congress (APC) lawmakers in both the Senate and House of Representatives who recently defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) were currently “working behind the scene to find their way back to the party.” The group consists of pro-Buhari lawmakers in the House of Representatives in APC as well as other parties and chaired by Hon. Sarkin Adar Musa (APC, Sokoto). It further emerged the President Muhammadu Buhari recently met with the group and assured them going forward, he would carry members of the National Assembly along “in everything he does.” The president reportedly promised to have monthly engagement with lawmakers to strengthen relations. Addressing reports, both Jibrin and Musa said Buhari had further assured that “Till the end of this tenure, we’ll work hand in hand and there’ll be no rancour anymore.” The lawmakers said the president addressed the group for over 45 minutes and among other things, stressed his commitment to the development of infrastructure. Jibrin, particularly claimed that the group had the support of the Speaker of the House, Hon. Yakubu Dogara, as well as its principal officers in their effort to drum support for the president. According to him: “Against the background of recent developments, we’ll continue to stand by the president; we are going to support him; we’ll continue to support his policies in the House. “We are working with the blessing of the leadership of the House of Representatives; we’ve the support of the speaker and other members of the principal officers and we also wish to commend the national chairman who has done a lot in the last few days to see that he unites the party and see that he stabilses the party and I can assure you that as at today, we are cruising at the highest altitude. “And for your information, even a lot of members and senators that have decamped are working behind the scene to find their way back to the party. ”
The chairman added:”We’ve resolved to stay committed to the ideals of Mr president in particular and APC in general. “We believe in his commitment to move this country forward from where it’s left unattended to by the previous government. There’s no gain saying that Buhari deserves the support of everyone. We’ve decided to merged and be one so nobody will go and say APC could not put its house in order. “Our house is in order and as solid as rock. You’ll soon see a planned line of action that would evolve in the coming days.”