The FIFA Disciplinary Committee has taken a series of decisions in application of the new framework on debtor clubs with Egyptian top team, Zamalek Sporting Club, one of the six teams sanctioned thursday. Zamalek was sanctioned with a fine of CHF 25,000 and given a final deadline of 60 days to pay the outstanding amounts owed to players or face ban from registering new players. According to FIFA’s Disciplinary Code now in operation, Zamalek will face an automatic deduction of six points and the automatic imposition of a transfer ban for two entire and consecutive registration periods if it fails to meet the final deadline. The other five clubs on the list include; Al Arabi Sports Club and Al Kharaitiyat both in Qatar, Al Jazira SC of the United Arab Emirates, Mersin İdman Yurdu Spor Kulübü of Turkey and Russian club, FC Kuban. All clubs concerned were found guilty of failing to comply with previous decisions of a FIFA body or a subsequent CAS appeal decision ordering them to pay significant overdue amounts of money to players. The sanctions imposed by the FIFA Disciplinary Committee are as follows: *Al Arabi Sports Club, Qatar: Was sanctioned with a fine of CHF 30,000 and given a final deadline of 90 days to pay the outstanding amounts. The club will face an automatic deduction of six points and the automatic imposition of a transfer ban for two entire and consecutive registration periods if it fails to meet the final deadline. * Al Kharaitiyat, Qatar: Was sanctioned with a fine of CHF 25,000 and given a final deadline of 60 days to pay the outstanding amounts. The club will face an automatic deduction of six points and the automatic imposition of a transfer ban for two entire and consecutive registration periods if it fails to meet the final deadline. * Al Jazira SC, United Arab Emirates: Was sanctioned with a fine of CHF 25,000 and given a final deadline of 60 days to pay the outstanding amounts. The club will face an automatic deduction of six points and the automatic imposition of a transfer ban for two entire and consecutive registration periods if it fails to meet the final deadline. *Mersin İdman Yurdu Spor Kulübü, Turkey: Was sanctioned with a fine of CHF 20,000 and given a final deadline of 60 days to pay the outstanding amounts. The club will face an automatic deduction of six points and the automatic imposition of a transfer ban for two entire and consecutive registration periods if it fails to meet the final deadline. *FC Kuban, Russia: Was sanctioned with a fine of CHF 15,000 and given a final deadline of 30 days to pay the outstanding amounts. The club will face an automatic deduction of six points and the automatic imposition of a transfer ban for one entire registration period if it fails to meet the final deadline. In accordance with FIFA Circular no. 1628 and in order to ensure that all decisions passed by FIFA bodies are respected as soon as they are issued, should the relevant amounts due not be paid in full by the debtor within the final deadline, the debtor’s association will be required to automatically apply the point deduction and/or the ban from registering any new players. In addition to said decisions, the FIFA Disciplinary Committee also sanctioned the Egyptian Football Association with a fine of CHF 50,000 and a warning for not respecting the mandatory rest period indicated in FIFA Circular no. 1578 as well as FIFA Circular no. 5 of the 2018 FIFA World Cup Russia. In particular, the member associations participating in the 2018 FIFA World Cup Russia were prohibited from playing friendly or preparation matches between 21 and 27 May 2018, in order to protect players before the final competition in Russia. Despite this, the Egyptian national team played an international friendly match against the national team of Kuwait on 25 May 2018.