Super Eagles Technical Adviser, Gernot Rohr, and Nigeria’s ex international, Emmanuel Amuneke, have been invited by world governing body FIFA to attend a FIFA Football Conference scheduled to hold on September 23, 2018 in London. Technical Director of the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF), Bitrus Bewarang, is also listed along with other head coaches and technical directors of all FIFA member associations for the football talk-shop in London. Amuneke who led the Golden Eaglets class of 2015 to win the FIFA Under-17 World Cup for Nigeria a record sixth time in Chile three years ago was a member of FIFA’s Technical Study Group (TSG) of the 2018 World Cup in Russia last month. The FIFA Football Conference is aimed at analyzing FIFA’s flagship competition from a technical and tactical point of view, identify trends and compare the main findings with previous editions of the FIFA World Cup based on the report by FIFA’s TSG, which is due to be presented at the conference according to a statement from the official website of FIFA. The event will also comprise discussions about the implementation of VAR and its impact on the game. FIFA’s Deputy Secretary General (Football), Zvonimir Boban, stressed that the aim of the conference is to further discuss the main findings identified on the pitch. “The 2018 FIFA World Cup was a huge success on and off the pitch. Through this conference, we aim to present and discuss the main findings identified on the pitch by our experts while listening to the feedback from our member associations,” the statement quoted Boban. “The World Cup should be seen as a learning platform that could have a positive impact on football’s technical development around the world. By having a single conference, we can engage with all our member associations at once and trigger a rich and diverse football dialogue.” It was also revealed that a single event for all FIFA member associations will be organised for the first time unlike the post-FIFA World Cup conferences organised by FIFA after Brazil 2014 and South Africa 2010, based on the FIFA 2.0 vision, which aims to promote an enhanced dialogue with member associations and confederations at all levels. Besides the FIFA Football Conference, individual meetings with the technical experts of the confederations and member associations are planned. The FIFA Football Conference will take place on the eve of The Best FIFA Football Awards.