By John Shiklam in Kaduna Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai has described the 8th National Assembly under the leadership of Bukola Saraki as the worst in Nigeria’s history. He also blamed the three senators from the state for his administration’s inability to complete ongoing projects. Speaking during a special interview with some local radio stations in Kaduna, El-Rufai urged the people of the state to hold Senators Shehu Sani (Kaduna Central), Suleiman Hunkuyi (Kaduna North) and Danjuma Laah (Southern Kaduna) responsible for uncomplicated projects in the state. Fielding questions on the programme which was conducted in Hausa, language, El-Rufai said the senators’ rejection of the $350 million World Bank loan for the state was responsible for the non- completion of the projects. He said the state government had initiated many projects with the hope of funding them with the loan, but the senate refused to give its approval for the loan despite that the House of Representatives approved it. Speaking on the defection of some members of the ruling APC, El-Rufai said: “This is not strange. We knew a long time ago that some people will defect. You know the APC was formed by coalition of some political parties. Some people joined because they knew we were going to win elections.” The governor said there were many politicians who are political prostitutes without any ideology. According to him, anybody who joined politics to enrich himself or steal public funds will certainly not like President Muhammadu Buhari. He added: “It is not surprising that some people felt they made a mistake by joining APC and they had to leave. For a long time, we have heard the stories of people saying that they suffered for the party to win elections but they are not benefiting anything. We know they will leave. “There are also those who are afraid that if Buhari gets a second term, he will wear his military uniform and arrest all the thieves. So they are scared that if he is allowed a second term, he will not spare them. “Many of them think that if they say they are leaving the party, they would be called and pleaded with, and be allowed to continue with corruption, there is no how Buhari will tolerate this. “Some people are concerned about their seats. Like us in Kaduna, since we started, Shehu Sani and Suleiman Hunkuyi have been eyeing the governorship seat. So they feel that if there is no way they can get the ticket, the only alternative is to defect.” Described the leadership of Senate as the worst Senate Nigeria has ever had, El-Rufai declared: “We have never had a bad senate leadership like this one by Bukola Saraki. Some people whose names were mentioned among those who decamped said they never authorised it. “I am convinced that the leadership of Adams Oshiomhole will address the problems. We know those who cannot win elections in their homes. Many of them found themselves in the National Assembly by riding on the back of Buhari. “Some of them won elections because their elections were held on the same day with the presidential election. If they think they will win elections on their own, good luck to them. “Like I said, the leader of our party in Kaduna has set up a reconciliation committee. Anybody that we have offended, we will apologise, but we will not tolerate those who betrayed the people.”