By John Shiklam in Kaduna Unspecified number of people, including police and army officers, were feared killed on Sunday night along the Kaduna-Abuja road by armed bandits. Also killed were the daughter of the army officer, and a former commissioner for Education in Katsina State Prof. Sadiya Akilu Idris. The armed men were also said to have robbed and abducted several other people during the incident which occurred near Gidan Busa village on the highway. Several others, including the orderly of the army officer, were said to have sustained injuries from gunshots as the hoodlums unleashed terror on motorists and travelers. An Eyewitness said the incident took place at about 7:00pm and lasted for about an hour as the gunmen blocked the road and operated freely. The eyewitness who pleaded anonymity was however, not specific about the number of those killed, but said several people may have been killed as the gunmen were shooting indiscriminately at people while others were abducted as they moved from one vehicle to another. He said the bandits were about 10 and were armed with sophisticated weapons. It was learnt that when the police men at one of the checkpoints on the highway were alerted about the operation, they couldn’t come as they had to wait for reinforcement before confronting the bandits. The gunmen struck at a time when security along the highway seemed to have improved. Many people traveling to and from Kaduna have long abandoned the road for train services shuttling between Abuja and Kaduna due to the high rate of kidnapping and armed robbery on the highway. The Kaduna state police command however confirmed that four people were killed in the attack while five others were injured. Confirming the killings in a statement on Monday, spokesman of the command, Mukktar Aliyu, said the incident occurred by Gidan Busa village at about 6:30pm when unknown gunmen blocked the Kaduna-Abuja road. The statement did not disclose the identities of those killed by the bandits neither did it say whether some were abducted. The statement read: “The Kaduna state police command wishes to inform the public that on 22/07/2018 at about 06:30pm, a distress call was received that a group of unidentified armed men blocked Kaduna–Abuja express road by Gidan Busa Village and opened fire indiscriminately at any vehicle on sight. ”In swift response, teams of police men stormed the scene where the bandits were dislodged but sadly they had already killed four commuters and injured five others in their dastardly act. “Normalcy has been restored on the road with commuters moving safely without molestation. “The police command uses this medium to reassure the public that we are committed ever than before to protect lives and property of Nigerians, irrespective of time, venue and circumstance. “In this regard, we call on the general public to volunteer information to security agencies to assist us in ridding our communities of such violent miscreants who have constituted threat to our peaceful coexistence.”