By Deji Elumoye, James Emejo in Abuja and Francis Sardauna in Katsina Eulogies poured in as the body of the former Inspector General of Police (IGP), and Chairman, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), Alhaji Ibrahim Ahmadu Coomassie was laid to rest in Katsina yesterday. The former IGP’s body was buried at the Rimin Badawa cemetery in Katsina, shortly after funeral prayers led by the Chief Imam of the Bin Coomassie mosque, Alhaji Samu Adamu Bakori. The Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, who was at the funeral, also delivered a condolence letter to Governor Aminu Bello Masari from the Force headquarters. Responding to the letter, Governor Masari said the nation had lost a bridge builder who committed himself to peace and unity of the country, describing the late Coomassie as an adviser and supporter of his state. “Coomassie was always trying to unite the people of the country. The last time we met, he was in a bad shape but was not talking about himself but about the nation, particularly addressing issues that have to do with the security of the nation,” Masari said. Dignitaries at the funeral prayer included the Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Abba Kyari: Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami; Minister of Interior, Abdulrahman Danbazau and Senator Abu Ibrahim, among others. Earlier, in his Jumaat sermon, Chief Imam Bakori of Katsina Central Mosque, who could not control his tears while leading thousands of worshippers, said every soul shall taste death and urged Nigerians to always fear God. Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, in a condolence message, yesterday, expressed grief over the death of Coomassie whom he described as a thorough-bred, diligent officer and gentleman, who served his country with all his energy during his lifetime. Saraki said, in his message released by his Media Adviser, Yusuph Olaniyonu that Coomassie’s contributions to the maintenance of law and order, as well as to the fight against insecurity in the country cannot be quantified. According to him, the late Coomassie, after retirement, became a statesman, using the platform of the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) to foster the unity of the nation and its development. Also in a condolence message, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara described the late Sardaunan Katsina as an illustrious Nigerian and eminent statesman who served the country meritoriously and dutifully, both in his career in the Nigeria Police and in retirement. Dogara said: “This is indeed a huge loss, especially at this trying time of security challenges when the country is in dire need of professional advice and elderly guidance from people of the ex-IGP’s calibre. “But we must take solace in the fact that the late Coomassie left a legacy of professionalism and selfless service to the country and humanity and will continue to be remembered for his outstanding courage, discipline and exemplary leadership, both in service as the police helmsman and in retirement. “My sincere condolences to his immediate family, the government and people of Katsina state over this great loss.”