Mary Nnah Brief Essentials, Nigeria’s first full-fledged and largest online destination for lingerie, is presently showcasing its latest collection. The items ranges from lingerie designed with tulle base, strappy design up to K cups and 46 bands to structured lace bralette sets and 4-Section bras in addition to everyday essentials. Others include swimwear, hosiery, underwear solutions and more for women, men and children. Also in stock are beautiful collections of sleepwear, shape wear, swimwear, bras, briefs, accessories, nursing underwear, very sexy lingerie, baby dolls, chemises, teddies, hosiery, and active wear for women. Whether you are an adventurous vixen, Everyday Jane, practical, ultra-feminine, sensual – you will find your match at Brief Essentials. With Brief Essentials, everyone can have access to the lingerie they love. Take the Lois Bra for example – a three piece embroidered cup on to a tulle base with inner stabilised sling in contrast shade for a delicate more sheer finish to add a look of luxury while retaining a great fit. And this is not the only item that caught our eye from the latest season’s drop. The new release has all of your underpinnings (shapewear, lingerie, loungewear and more) needs covered with pieces like the Dana Strapless Bra, the Dionne with Harness or the Saachi in addition to longline silhouettes like the Piper and Breeze. THISDAY caught up with Seun Tayo-Balogun, the CEO of Brief Essentials. We asked what prompted the setting up of Brief Essentials.
Tayo-Balogun said, “There was a time in Nigeria when many retailers focused on electronics, fashion merchandising, shoes etc., but lingerie was not given the attention it deserved. “Lingerie was mostly sold in brick and mortar stores, as well as second-hand market. As if that wasn’t bad enough, lingerie options at this time were limited and mostly overpriced, or of questionable quality. “Equipped with this knowledge and the fact that I was not alone in the search of beautiful and functional undergarments, Brief Essentials set out as an online lingerie store to cater to the needs of everyone, in addition to providing lingerie education, and highlighting the importance of fit, style and function of undergarments using digital platforms.” Brief Essentials was launched in April 2011 and since then it has revolutionised lingerie and underwear shopping in Nigeria’s budding online marketplace on www.briefessentials.com.