UNIFIED FOOTBALL CUP Special Olympics Nigeria’s Male Unified football team has been selected to represent African region in the inaugural male unified football tournament to mark the 50th anniversary of Special Olympics in USA. The unified football cup which is scheduled to hold on July 20, 2018 in Chicago, is one of the several events lined up to mark the anniversary of the global body founded in 1968. The first-ever Special Olympics Unified Cup was presented by Toyota on July 17, 2018. The tournament will feature 24 teams (eight women’s teams and 16 men’s teams) comprised of people with and without intellectual disabilities from around the globe – hence the theme, Unified. SO Nigeria is one of the over 170 countries which have affiliations with the Special Olympics. According to an official of SO Nigeria, Exxon Mobil Nigeria, a strong supporter of inclusion, has already contributed towards the purchase and branding of the team’s kit and travel attires for the tournament. “Exxon Mobil Foundation has also displayed its support for inclusion through the Skillz for Life programme where people with and without intellectual disabilities are given quality health education on malaria and HIV/AIDS and taught life skills. In 2016, Exxon Mobil sponsored the Youth Empowerment Initiatives where athletes were empowered with skills such as photography, beadwork and more. On July 20, 2018, Special Olympics will honour its history and celebrate its future with the lighting of the Special Olympics Eternal Flame of Hope monument outside Soldier Field, home of the first games, to symbolise the on-going mission of inclusion. On July 21, the first-ever Global Day of Inclusion will be held at Soldier Field, a family event open to all.
Later that evening, Special Olympics will host the Inclusion Fest Concert featuring internationally acclaimed music acts. Across the world, iconic buildings are switching their lights red to raise awareness for the need for inclusion.
In Lagos, Nigeria, The Civic Centre and Civic Towers will be light up RED for inclusion on the evening of July 20, 2018.