By Bola A. Akinterinwa The governance of Nigeria under President Muhammadu Buhari (PMB) is increasingly characterised by recidivist insecurity, political chicanery, social recklessness and unnecessary diplomatic faux pas. PMB will therefore need to be more sagacious in his attitudinal disposition to Nigeria’s and international public outcry, if not, he may be cut unawares of a possible new French-styled Revolution in Nigeria. For instance, in Nigeria of today, it is only the politicians that are happy and that are having whatever they want without due regard for rule of law and social decency. The 1789 French Revolution ought to be a source of lesson for the PMB administration to learn how not to impose exploitative unilateralism and don’t care politics. When the French people began to complain in anger and in silence to their king, about taxation and their suffering, but to no avail, the people gradually developed resistance to perceived over-taxation and rejection of monarchical rule, which eventually led to the beheading of their king at La Bastille. The government only need to send feelers to motor parks, drinking parlours, sporting centres, etc, to listen to what people say and how they even curse PMB and his government, and yet the government believes it is doing well. At this critical juncture of political governance, there is the need for more caution to avoid possible popular revolt. For now, Nigerians have become political and economic spectators. How do the people see PMB and Nigeria? Probably PMB should first begin to ask himself what image has his own presidential administration, unlike the time of his military regime? Still, what image has Nigeria internationally, if an ex-judge has to lead a public protest over non-payment of retirees pensions and if a 78-year old retired teacher slumped while on the queue begging for the payment of his entitlement? (vide The Punch, Thursday, July 26, 2018, p.5).
The character of recidivism, chicanery and recklessness, which is at the domestic level, is largely responsible for the diplomatic missteps often taken at the external level. The ultimate resultant effect is to the extent that both the personal image of PMB and that of the Federal Republic of Nigeria has to be soiled and tainted internationally. This is most unfortunate. But this cannot but be so, because the responsibility of any accredited diplomatic mission in Nigeria necessarily goes beyond the mere expression of representation and protection of the national interest. The issue is not representation per se but how the representation should be done and organised. Put differently, the first challenge of representation and protection of the national interest requires an objective interpretation of what is often called the Mission Charter given to each embassy as a plan and guide. Every embassy has well-defined specific objectives to be pursued in its host or receiving state. How to achieve the specific objectives is always a major challenge. The challenge requires knowing who is who, cultivating friendships with people in political and strategic positions, and perhaps, more importantly, familiarising with the media institutions. In this regard, monitoring of media reports is a desideratum for all diplomatic missions. Apart from its usefulness for intelligence gathering, regular monitoring of political governance enables an objective evaluation of developments and policy-making back home. Put differently, the diplomatic missions in Nigeria often have first hand information about their host countries, even more than the citizens of the country and Nigeria’s diplomatic missions abroad. Diplomatic missions send first hand information by way of diplomatic reports to their headquarters back home. This is why it is, more often than not, quite difficult for Nigeria’s mission abroad to defend political wrong doings in Nigeria. In fact, when Nigeria’s Foreign Service Officers often find themselves defending the indefensible, their colleagues simply tell them that they already do understand the situation, and this is also why their host states only ask for more information and clarification rather than seeking to take the bad end of the stick with the Government of Nigeria.
A cursory explication of the main dynamics of the recidivist insecurity, political chicanery, social recklessness and diplomatic faux pas clearly points to a bleak future for Nigeria if immediate caution is not taken, especially by way of sustained public enlightenment in the area of truths projection on what Government is doing or what it intends to do in order to nip the problems in the bud. Recidivist Insecurity
On recidivist insecurity, its agents are well known. What does the Boko Haram group want? Its political objective is to have the establishment of an Islamic State in the North Eastern part of Nigeria to begin with. Ultimately, the objective is to have an Islamic State of Nigeria. Where this is not possible, the objective is to have Nigeria divided into Muslim North and Christian South the way the late Muammar Gaddafi has suggested. As pointed out by Gaddafi, there can never be any enduring solution to Nigeria’s political instability unless Nigeria is divided on the basis of Muslim North and Christian South. And to a great extent, Gaddafi is being proved correct, as the war on the boko haramists is not achieving the desired results. The boko haramists are not fighting a conventional war. They engage in terroristic and guerrilla warfare in which there is no specific battle field or war front. Every space is their target. Perhaps more disturbingly, many Arab states aid and abet Islamic Jihad and the use of terrorism as its technique. The first problem is not simply the jihad but the critical question of the jihadists being Fulanis, one of whom PMB also is. Opposition to the jihadists is necessarily an opposition to the Fulanis, as well as an opposition to PMB. The implication of this is that PMB cannot but be seen as a Fulani president and not as a Nigerian president, seeking the protection of the national interest. Has PMB been fighting boko haramists tooth and nail? If yes, is he so perceived? This is the main area of challenge PMB must quickly address. Public perception of how he is currently handling the alleged Islamisation of Nigeria desires greater attention. Related to this issue of recidivist insecurity is that of the misunderstanding between herdsmen and farmers. The herdsmen are transparently aggressors with an agenda and should not be simply considered as herdsmen. They are another set of jihadists because their objective is land grab. Their technique is again terroristic. Where do they get their AK 47 rifles from? What is the cost of an AK 47 rifle and where do the herdsmen source the funding from? No herdsman can afford the luxury of buying an AK 47 which costs more than N3 million per one. It is on the basis of these questions that the people of Nigeria rightly or wrongly suspect the deliberate acquiescence of PMB because of his prolonged silence on the matter. If we admit that they are terrorists, why should land be given to them for grazing? there is the need to first differentiate between genuine herdsmen and those who are not. As a matter of fact, PMB has been criticised by more elderly and senior citizens of Nigeria on this same issue, because Christian leaders are unnecessarily being killed here and there, compelling many observers to suggest the possibility of a religious war in the foreseeable future. The crisis in the Middle Belt states is a clear pointer. The well-respected General Theophilus Danjuma has even publicly accused the Nigerian military of complicity in the killing of unarmed civilians. Killing one’s compatriot is most unfortunate. Butchering children like animals as shown in media reports is unacceptable. Keeping silent over it is more criminally than the act of killing. And using a manu militari method to suppress opposition to the killing is pushing the people to the wall. But the wall cannot always be the end of the road. There is therefore the need for greater caution. The MASSOB-driven recidivist insecurity is of a different nature. The Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) is seeking political autonomy for the Igbo people in the eastern part of Nigeria. The Igbo people are not sharply divided on this matter. It is the younger generation of the people that are in the frontline of the struggle for independence. The older generation is not actively disposed to the struggle and this is where the problem and the major challenge lie. The older generation is fading away gradually. The people who are most likely to have the mantle of leadership in the future are precisely the ones engaging in the struggle. This means that, for a long time to come, the struggle will be there. It is useful to also note that the quest for regional autonomy is not restricted to the Igbo struggle. The Yoruba have also been seriously complaining with their calls for restructuring. True, the quest for restructuring is a manifestation of complaints against policies of unfairness, injustice, nepotism and all alleged conspiratorial silence. Government is perceived to be more interested in electoral politics than to politics of solution-finding to national complaints. This type of perception can only precipitate undesired consequences. Again, there is the need to pause and reflect before it is too late, especially that kidnappings and armed robberies are also becoming the order of the day. Political Chicanery In civilised countries of the world, the position of a Minister or head of an equivalent public institution is considered very noble, and therefore well respected. When a Minister is accused of any wrong doing, even before the matter is allowed to generate any controversy, the accused Minister honourably resigns and this allows for objective investigation of the matter. In Nigeria, the office and position of a Minister does not enjoy such nobility and respect. Any politician can wake up one morning, in an act of ignorance, lambast a Minister, including any Minister of God. This is most unfortunate. Let us begin with the issue of handling of the Governing Boards of parastatals under the Ministry of Labour and Employment. The issue involved the Minister, Dr. Chris Ngige and the newly elected National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) party, Comrade Adams Oshiomole. Comrade Oshiomole is apparently behaving in the handling of the matter as if he is another President of Nigeria. He is pontificating and giving the impression that a political party is more important than the individual Nigerians that give meaning to the party. Comrade Oshiomole is also giving a very wrong impression that the interest of PMB takes precedence over that of the collective people of Nigeria. This is most unfortunate. On Monday, July 23rd, 2018 Comrade Oshiomole, much concerned that PMB gave instructions to Minsters, but which the Ministers had delayed to implement, declared that the height of mischief for any minister to purport to be honourable is to act dishonourably and that nobody is greater than the party. This observation is only good and tenable if the party is already great, if it already has integrity, and if it already reflects popular will in its decision-making processes. For me, one man with integrity and honesty of purpose is greater than a political party of several people with conflicting selfish interests. In this regard, the Labour Minister, Senator Chris Ngige, was reported to have delayed the inauguration of the Board of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Funds (NSITF) because of the ongoing EFCC investigation on alleged fraud of over N40 billion perpetrated by the previous board. Comrade Oshiomole is not much concerned about fraud and corruption. His view is that if the Minister refuses to inaugurate the boards, ‘we will suspend him from the party’ because of the need to ‘return to internal discipline.’ As Oshiomole further puts it, ‘if the president condones disrespect for his office, I (Oshiomole) will not condone disrespect for the party. And when we expel the Minister, we will prevail on the President that he can’t keep in his cabinet people who have neither respect for his own decisions nor have respect for the party without which they would not have been ministers.’ In fact, in the eyes of Oshiomole, the Minister is unnecessarily appropriating ‘the powers of the board in a democracy,’ and therefore, ‘they (Ngige and the Minister of Transportation (Aviation), Hadi Sirika, who also has not inaugurated the boards of aviation agencies) either comply or we will expel them from the party. When we expel them we will find out how a government can keep a rebel in the cabinet. There is no question about that.’ In other words, Ngige is one of the rebels in the administration of PMB in the eyes of Oshiomole. But is this valid an observation? Nigeria’s politics of under-development and promotion of serious misconduct in the political governance of Nigeria is located at this juncture. First, Comrade Oshiomole does not even realise that that he has carelessly insulted and indicted PMB by saying that ‘if the President condones disrespect for his office’, he, Oshiomole, will not accept disrespect for the APC party. Put differently, PMB is condoning disrespect, be it in his own office or elsewhere. Oshiomole is also saying he is better than PMB in the management of public affairs. Again, If Senator Ngige is showing much caution about the alleged fraud, and Oshiomole does not see any common sense in that, but believing that what is important is to comply with presidential directives in the military style of ‘obeying the last order,’ the future of democracy is already endangered. And as Ngige himself has responded to Oshiomole, ‘the man (Oshiomole) is talking out of ignorance,’ that he had already inaugurated three out of the four parastatals under his ministry, and that the fourth, the inauguration of the new board of the NSITF, has to be delayed because of alleged fraud of the previous board. And perhaps more interestingly, Ngige said he was part of those who founded the party before the admission of Oshiomole into the party. How do we reconcile seniority of tenure in the party and the executive powers of the Chairman of the party? Whatever is the case, Ngige’s position is protective of the war against corruption. It is in the interest of both PMB and the larger interest of the people of Nigeria. Besides, the urgent need for inauguration of boards of governmental agencies is nothing more than for 2019 electoral purposes. In fact, appointments into boards are no more for guidance or done of basis of integrity. Stricto sensu, it is more of ‘jobs for the boys.’ If a governing council could cover up acts of serious misconduct and not only encouraged acts of indiscipline by members of staff, but also incited them against their Director General and Chief Executive, and if the matter was not only reported to Government and even to PMB and no action was taken on the complaint, as it was the case with the General Ike Nwachukwu-led Governing Council of the Nigerian Institute of International Affairs, what then is the big deal about quickly inaugurating any board if it is not for the 2019 electoral expediency? What is the big deal about a political party in which the members do not have ideological stand and fundamental principles? What is the big deal for a political party in which members frolic around: member of APC in the morning, join the PDP in the afternoon, return to the APC in the evening, but whose interests are yet to be officially guaranteed by the political parties? What is the big deal with political parties now seeking to raise the bar of vote-buying on election day in a nascent democracy? Social Recklessness
The extent of social recklessness in Nigeria is becoming intolerable. Increasingly, many Nigerians are taking the law into their hands, the law enforcement agents are in the lead in this regard. How do we explain, for example, that, in Owerri, Imo State, Ngozi Onyenemezu, the magistrate in charge of Umuneke Ngor Magistrate Court, in the Ngor Okpala Local Government Area, was indecently assaulted by policemen on July 19, 2018, reportedly because the magistrate discharged an armed robbery case because the charges were defective? There is another disgusting case of police recklessness in the past one week. A policeman attached to the Novare Mall in Lekki, Lagos, has reportedly slapped Mr. Ajibola Akinsete, a 27-year old Nigerian who recorded an assault of a Nigerian by a Lebanese. As reported by Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe, a Lebanese refused to pay the wages owed a Nigerian who worked for him. When the Nigerian insisted on the payment, the Lebanese manhandled him, while Mr. Akinsete made efforts to capture the event with his mobile phone. Some security guards at the shopping mall intervened and told Mr Akinsete that he did not have the right to capture electronically the event, and therefore tried to seize his phone. Mr. Akinsete refused to hand over his phone. The security guards invited the policemen who again, indecently assaulted Mr. Akinsete at the mall. It is useful to read the police indecency in The Punch of Friday, July 27, 2018, p. 4). Besides, how do we explain the non-payment of pensions to retirees for more than a decade? Is there no problem when policemen have to engage in public protest for payment of their legitimate allowances under the 2014 ECOWAS Peace Mission to Guinea Bissau? As complained by the affected policemen, ‘we are members of Course 140 on one-year peace mission to Guinea Bissau. We were supposed to spend one year, but we ended up spending 18 months. We were supposed to be paid $950 each as monthly allowance but we were not paid for one year.’ After one year, we were paid three months. We were envious of our counterparts from other countries who were paid when due.’ The problem here is that the ECOWAS has released the entitlements to the Government of Nigeria but the beneficiaries are begging and protesting to have their entitlements. Perhaps more disturbingly, is there any need to await any presidential directive before traffic congestion could be controlled along Oshodi-Apapa express way in Lagos State? When there are three lanes, apart from the service lane, if trucks pack on one lane in an orderly queue, what prevents the government from sanctioning any truck parking on other lanes? What prevents the Lagos State Government from giving fines to vehicles obstructing road traffic even if the expressway belongs to the Federal Government? Diplomatic Faux Pas The Government is unnecessarily keeping mute on the foregoing issues, and thereby sending a very wrong signal to the international community. Bayo Akinloye of ThisDay has drawn attention to the report, prepared by the US economic officers in US embassies, which has noted that ‘Nigeria’s full market potential remains unrealised because of significant impediments such as pervasive corruption, inadequate power, … inconsistent regulatory and legal environment, insecurity, a slow and ineffective bureaucracy and judicial system…’ (vide ThisDay on Sunday, July 22, 2018, p.8). This is the perception of Nigeria by the international community. If the perception of the international community is that the tender processes in Nigeria is not transparent and that corruption and inconsistent regulations are very pervasive in Nigeria, how does Nigeria respond diplomatically to this? Government has been silent as if there is no poverty and grievance in the land. Keeping silent without constructive pronouncement on it is a diplomatic faux pas. There is the need to re-strategise and prevent another civil war. ‘a stitch in time saves nine,’ the adage goes.