By Rebecca  Ejifoma The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) has advised youths planning to travel to use regular routes of migration to countries of their choice rather than endanger their lives. The South West Zonal Coordinator of NEMA, Yakubu Suleiman, made the appeal on Thursday evening while receiving another batch of 162 Nigerian youths stranded in Libya at the Murtala Muhammad International Airport. He pointed out that migration had been part of human life from time of creation for different reasons, adding that it was not mandatory for intended host country to accept the migrants based on the country’s national policies. “Every economically viable country like Nigeria is having its shares of socio-economic and security challenges; respective nations are grappling with its own shares,” he stated. According to Suleiman, the primary responsibility of every government  was to cater and safeguard the national interests and welfare of her citizens first before considering others. Thus, “Nigerian youths seeking greener pastures outside the shores of this country should know that they would become second class citizens in their host countries except for those who entered such country through regular means that may possibly have limited rights”. Speaking, also, the Director General of the Agency, Mustapha Maihajja, implored the youths not to be fooled by traffickers who falsely promise greater fortune in foreign lands but ended up pun in the chessboard of the traffickers without opportunity to seek redress at the time. He added: “Look inward and maximise your potentials in developing this country to the level of your expectations. The present administration is poised at ensuring that enabling environment that can enhance individual contributions to national development.” Continuing, Maihaija observed that cases of outright smuggling human beings abound with youths paying agents/traffickers huge amounts of money to smuggle them into another country where they ended up being victims of  the agents’ greed and exploitation. He lauded the International Organisation for Migration (IOM) for continuous support to the migrants and the European Union for supporting the reintegration process. The flight with registration number 5A-DMG arrived at 9:56pm with 162 voluntary returnees: three minor medical cases with 83 female adults (15 pregnant women), six female children and six female infants. Others included 62 male adults, two male children and three male infants. Narrating her ordeals, one of the returnees, – Amina Adeniyi, 19, from Owo, Ondo State, expressed regret on her voyage. “I paid money to be smuggled into Germany for better life with assistance from my family member. I regretted to the level that I prayed to God to take my life. “Before I left Owo, I was told that my International Passport would be given to me in Kano but this was not the case,” she regretted. She lamented that there was no going back for 13 of them travelling. “No one could ask questions from our agents. We were handed over to another agent, who took us across the desert”. “God helped us survive the deadly journey. About four girls died in the Hilux pick up that were asked to join others. The worst experience was the type of work I was forced to do. I had to obey all instructions from the connection man. Failure to obey, you will be sold out,” the teenager lamented.