To boost the profit margin of traders in the state, Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has reduced by 40 per cent the levy paid in selected markets. Obaseki announced the cut when he received members of the Market Women Association led by Madam Blackie Ogiamien, who paid him a courtesy visit at the Government House, in Benin City, Edo State recently. In a related development, members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) in the state have thrown their weight behind Obaseki for delivering dividends of democracy to the people. According to the governor, traders who would benefit from the cut are those whose businesses are not viable in Agbado, Oliha, Ogiso and Uwa markets in Benin City, the state capital, and traders who were paying N5,000 before the announcement will now pay N3,000. He assured market women that his administration has made double ticketing and touting history in the state, noting that he would give priority to Edo citizens on job creation. He said in the coming months, the state government would ensure that power, water and sanitation issues receive the desired attention in all the markets within Benin metropolis. Obaseki said traders who trade in densely populated areas would have access to health care services.
He urged the traders to support his administration’s effort to eradicate child labour in the state by reporting suspected cases to the appropriate authority. Earlier, the leader of the traders, Madam Ogiamien, commended the governor for the steps taken to spread development across the state, adding that Obaseki’s governance style is worth commending. She lauded the governor’s resolve to address double taxation and touting which place much burden on the traders, noting that the gesture would increase their profit. State Chairman of NURTW, Mr. Odio Olaye who led other members of the union on a solidarity walk to the Government House in Benin City, commended the governor for what he called “the good work Obaseki has done within a short time in office,” and assured that members of the union are behind him. He urged those peddling falsehood to distract the governor to desist from the act and maintained that the governor deserved to be praised. The union leader said: “It is only those who are blind that will not see the good work you are doing. You are building roads; we are seeing the projects and our members are happy with you. We appreciate the good work you are doing with the Edo State Traffic Management Agency (EDSTMA), the vigilante group and the Public Works Volunteers (PUWOV) programme.” In his remark, the governor expressed appreciation to members of the union for their support and assured that: “My administration is determined to make life more meaningful for the average Edo person. My vision is to transform the economy and make the state viable for businesses to thrive. I have engaged contractors to rehabilitate and reconstruct roads across the 18 local government areas of the state.”