•Adewole: THISDAY is a star in repositioning healthcare in Nigeria Martins Ifijeh High powered members of Nigeria’s economic team lead by Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, governors, National Assembly members, Federal Ministers, Commissioners of Health, World Bank chiefs and officials of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation are among stakeholders expected to grace the third edition of the THISDAY Healthcare Policy Dialogue billed to hold at the Musa Yar’Adua Conference Centre in Abuja on Friday, July 27, by 10a.m. The summit, which hopes to bring under one roof healthcare stakeholders, development partners and policy makers to chat a way forward for the provision of basic healthcare to all states of the federation, will also focus on honouring high performing states in healthcare, as well as states with potential to spring surprises. It will also address the role of emergency medicine in healthcare provision. This is following the previous two policy dialogues, which focused on Healthcare Financing and Universal Health Coverage (UHC) in March and April 2018 respectively. Both earlier endeavours yielded a number of successes, including for the first time, the earmarking of N57.15 billion in the 2018 national budget for the Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF) by the National Assembly. This third edition, themed: ‘Funding Healthcare for All; Why States Matter,’ with a sub-theme, ‘Emergency Medicine: Need for Action,’ will honour eight states using federal government’s Saving One Million Lives Programme Performance Index as a major tool in determining star states that have delivered healthcare to their people. Among those expected are the Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole; Minister of FCT, Alhaji Mohammed Bello; Zamfara State Governor, Alhaji Yari Abubakar; Chairman, Senate Committee on Health, Senator Lanre Tejuoso; Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode; Kano State Governor, Alhaji Umar Ganduje; Delta State Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa; Anambra State Governor, Mr. Willie Obiano; Adamawa State Governor, Mr. Jibrilla Bindow; Cross River State Governor, Prof. Ben Ayade; and Founder, Flying Doctors Nigeria, Dr. Ola Orekunrin. Others are Minister of State for Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire; Country Head, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Ms. Paulin Basinga; Chief Health, Nutrition and Population, World Bank Nigeria, Mr. Benjamin Loevinsohn; UNICEF Country Director, Mr. Mohammed Fall; Senior Health Advisory, Nigeria Governors Forum, Mr. Abdulwahab Ahmad; and Programme Manager, Saving One Million Lives, Alhaji Ibrahim Kana, among others. States to be honoured using the SOML Performance Index are Zamfara, Lagos, Cross River, Delta, Anambra, Adamawa, Kano State and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).