In furtherance of its commitment to enriching lives and rewarding loyalty of its trade partners, the non-alcoholic beverage giant, Nigerian Bottling Company Limited (NBC) has presented N1 million seed capital in the form of beverage products and other gifts to 16 lucky winners in its ongoing empowerment campaign tagged ‘My Million Don Land’. The 16 winners comprising local retailers and hub owners, emerged after a series of open market activations and mystery shopping conducted in major markets across Lagos. Speaking on the campaign, the Legal, Public Affairs and Communication Director, Nigerian Bottling Company Limited (NBC), Mrs. Sade Morgan described the new initiative as part of the company’s commitment towards the empowerment of its trade partners. The campaign also afforded the winners the platform to nominate a school within their communities that would be provided with five computers as a contribution towards educational development. She further revealed that the initiative would provide business support for trade partners performing above board and an opportunity to jointly contribute to sustainable development goal one and four which address poverty and education in their respective communities. “Nigerian Bottling Company Limited (NBC), values and appreciates all its trade partners particularly because their efforts enable us fulfil our corporate promise of enriching the lives of Nigerians. “At NBC, we believe we must consistently provide necessary support to all component parts of our external business, especially our trade partners, helping them grow”, She said. Speaking on the mechanism of the initiative, the Acting Commercial Manager (Ikeja Commercial Territory), Nigerian Bottling Company Limited (NBC), Diana Otisi, explained  that mystery shoppers were assigned to visit open markets across Lagos State to select the lucky winners (small scale retailers) who meet the set criteria. “To stand the chance of being selected in any of the locations, mystery shoppers are expected to go out in search of retailers with three particular SKUs- Coke Zero, Limca, and Fanta Apple in its stock. “Once the retailer is identified, he takes the mystery shopper to the hub owner or distributor supplying the three variants or SKUs” she stated. One of the winners, Chinedu Nwoye appreciated Nigerian Bottling Company Limited for the initiative explaining that the empowerment would help transform his business for the better. “This is really a business upgrade for me. Now, I can expand my business as I have always dreamed,” he said.