Senator Iroegbu in Abuja The third edition of the 2018 Abuja Investment Expo will host over 35,000 participants and 120 exhibitors.
The aim of the event is to attract investment into Nigeria, to boost business activities and accelerate economic development with special interest in Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The 3-day expo which will be hosted by the FCT Minister, Mallam Muhammad Bello, from July 24, is organised by Abuja Shelter Aid Organisation(SAO) in partnership with the Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI) with the theme: “Land Development: A Catalyst For Economic Advancement” Briefing journalists, the Vice Chairman ACCI, Johnson Anene, explained that the expo was intended to further the federal government’s initiative on poverty alleviation and job creation by focusing on how it can attract investment into the country. Anene, who is also the Chairman of the organising Committee, said the expo was borne out of the need to further explore opportunities of earning income for the nation in the non oil sector giving the ever dwindling oil prices in the oil market “The ministers of Works, Power and Housing; Industry , Trade and Investment, are expected to address the event, with about 3,500 expected participants. “Government agencies and private sector Organisations that will be participating will help to bring to the attention of the participants the enormous business opportunities that abound in this country and in the FCT,” he said. He added that the 2018 theme focuses on land because every economic activity directly or indirectly has a bearing on land. According to him, “You cannot detach any form of business activity from land, so land is key to any economic activity. If we can make access to land easier and more accessible to business people for economic activities, it will affect every other thing. “We want to also address the issue of difficulty in getting land and registering land titles, we also have serious deficiency in the housing stock for the Nigerian populace.” “The expo will also seek to address the burning issue of mortgage financing and provision if funding for construction. “The programme will feature exhibitions, we are expecting about 120 exhibitors, there will be business seminars, business to business meetings, talk shows. The idea is to exchange ideas for those that are looking for partners, those looking for agents to represent them, those looking for new market for their products and also those aspiring to explore new business opportunities” he said. The Vice Chairman further explained that the exhibition was going to cut across major sectors of construction, quality affordable housing delivery, solid minerals exploration, environmental protection and major areas of investment. He noted that previous editions in 2016 and 2017 recorded huge success and expressed confidence that this year’s will be more successful. “I will impact very positively on the participants and on the Nation. Attendance is open to all I want to encourage everybody to participate and take benefits of the opportunity the programme will provide,” he stressed. He listed other participants at the expo to include: key Government MDAs, foreign and local business magnets, Embassies and a host of private organisations.”