… new officers will monitor and mentor teachers Efforts to strengthen the primary education sub-sector for quality learning experience in Edo State have yielded another positive outcome with the completion of the training programme for teachers who volunteered to be Quality Assurance Officers, and Learning and Development Officers. Special Adviser to Governor Godwin Obaseki on Basic Education and Acting Chairman, Edo State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) Dr. Joan Osa Oviawe, said the new roles are parts of the state government’s strategy to strengthen the inspectorate arm of the primary education sub-sector for better monitoring and mentoring of teachers. “Edo State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) in line with its Edo Basic Education Sector Transformation(Edo BEST) initiative has taken a step to strengthen the supervision and mentoring of teachers in public primary schools through the selection and training of teachers who volunteered to be Quality Assurance Officers and Learning and Development Officers,” she said. Osa Oviawe explained “many outstanding teachers in public primary schools volunteered for the roles and were interviewed. Those shortlisted were invited to participate in the training.” On the specific roles of the Quality Assurance officers, the Ag. Chairman of Edo SUBEB said “They are to visit schools every day, to monitor daily review of teachers’ activities, take inventory of teaching aids and facilities and send their reports using the technological devices provided to them.” The Learning and Development Officers according to her, “is a new role created in the sector, and part of Governor Obaseki’s Edo BEST initiative. “These officers will be trained to become the Edo-BEST trainers and mentors of teachers.” She added that  “Once a Quality Assurance Officer visits a school and identifies areas of improvement, the Learning and Development Officer will visit the same school to provide continuous training and support to teachers. “Thus, effectively providing on-the-spot training and mentoring for teachers who need it instead of waiting for months or even years to address the problem through a seminar or professional development training.” Dr. Osa Oviawe explained that the new officers will be deployed on a ratio of one Quality Assurance Officer to 10 schools and one Learning and Development Officer to 10 schools. She maintained that “our goal in SUBEB is to professionalise the teaching corps, restore the prestige of the teaching profession in Edo state, and work with our teachers to be the best in Nigeria, Sub-Saharan Africa, Africa and indeed, top 10 in the world. She assured that by September this year, 52 per cent of public primary schools across the state would be included in the Edo BEST programme covering Kindergarten – Primary 6 hence the need or effective monitoring and the daily review of teachers’ activities in schools