The flagship event of the TKMG Art Auction house, a collaboration of two Lagos-based art galleries, Terra Kulture and Mydrim Gallery returned for its ninth edition! Activities leading up to the event, which held on Friday, the 27th of July at the Terra Kulture Arena, kicked off with Collector’s Preview & Cocktail night on the 20th of July. The preview night gave collectors a chance to view some of the pieces to be auctioned, and to have first choice on the auction night. It also showed a new and emerging crop of collectors and art enthusiasts, including Tokini Peterside, Dakore Egbuson, Kunle Afolayan, Sonia Irabor, Abimbola Craig, Bolanle Olukanni, Afua Osei, Yasmine Belo-Osagie, Denola Grey, Ozinna Anumudu, amongst others. Also present at the preview event were artists whose pieces would be up for auction – Kolade Oshinowo, Nse Abasi, M. Inyang, Nzennaya Barry Ikechukwu – giving them a first-hand chance to persuade art collectors present to buy their pieces on the auction night. The event welcomed the two winners of the Instagram Art Competition which gave winners, Prince Idiage and Laju Sholola, the opportunity to showcase their pieces to art lovers and collectors present at the preview event. Curator for Terra Kulture Art Gallery, Ugonna Ibe-Ejiogu, said: I am very happy with how the 9th edition of the Lagos Art Auction 2018 went. We had an even stronger collection of works than past edition, and a number of them had even already been reserved. For the first time and, as part of the programme, we also gave two emerging artists who won our social media competition, the opportunity to showcase their work and benefit from expert critique by notable artists and seasoned collectors. While the selected works were not up for sale at the auction, the auctionwas certainly invaluable exposure for the two winners and personally I hope that it becomes a catalyst for their career growth” Art auctions in Lagos are rather few and far between in the usually vibrant Lagos art scene, but are gradually becoming some of the most drooled-over events of the thriving art industry. This is thanks to platforms such as the TKMG Art Auction House – giving artists a chance to showcase their best pieces, and even better yet, to sell them off at as high a price as possible. Guests were expected to stop by the TKMG Auction House all week (from 23rd – 26th July) to view the pieces before the auction. The TKMG Auction House is located at Terra Kulture Tiamiyu Savage Street, Victoria Island Lagos.