Ring True By Yemi Adebowale; yemi.adebowale@thisdaylive.com; 07013940521 I have never been a fan of the electricity distribution companies that bought the assets of the defunct PHCN. I have persistently chided them for deliberately refusing to meter consumers contrary to the purchase agreement they signed with the federal government when they took over power distribution assets. They have also glaringly and abysmally failed to enhance the distribution assets acquired. Their performances in the last four years have been below average. For me, they remain the weakest link in the electricity supply chain, with emphasis only on “eating” revenue accruing to them. I am also against their persistent demand for review of electricity charges and unreasonable opposition to the newly introduced eligible customer policy that will take industrial users away from their ineptitude. However, in the last few days, these distribution companies have made a number of pertinent observations about the electricity challenge facing the country. They have also made terrifying allegations against the Minister of Power, Babatunde Fashola, on electricity generation figures being dished out. I am earnestly waiting for Fashola to specifically address the issues raised. For the Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED), Fashola’s claims that power generation had peaked at 7,000MW since President Muhammadu Buhari came into office in May 2015 is false. ANED said further that as at January 2015, Nigeria was already doing something very close to that generation figure. It also described as false, the government’s repeated claims that an excess generation of 2,000MW was idle. Speaking through its Executive Director, Sunday Oduntan, ANED said: “Generation capacity as at January 2015 was 6,421 megawatts (MW) and not 4,000MW as often claimed by the government. Government has largely created more confusion in the operations of the country’s electricity sector, than it had helped it. A review of NERC’s Daily Energy Watch for January 28, 2015 would indicate a generation availability of 6,421MW, divided into peak of 4,230MW and constrained energy of 2,191MW. In other words, it is misleading to state that available generation had grown from 4,000MW in 2015, as a measure of progress, given that a volume of generation slightly under 7,000MW already or previously existed, prior to the beginning of this administration. “Furthermore, there is no stranded 2,000MW. While there is an available capacity of 7,000MW, the best that can be generated, at this time is 5,000MW. This is because there is insufficient gas to power the thermal plants due to gas line limitations. For instance, the non-completion of the Oben pipeline, and the absence of a commercial framework that would encourage gas exploration are hindering gas supply. This, therefore, shows that very little had actually changed contrary to constant pronouncements by government. It is with much regret that we feel compelled to respond to the significantly distorted picture that has been painted by the Minister of Power, Babatunde Fashola.” Allegations that Fashola had been spending taxpayers’ money on “misguided projects” are also disturbing. “Nigerians are not getting value for taxpayers’ funds being channelled to misguided projects by the Rural Electrification Agency, Transmission Company of Nigeria and ‘friends’ under the watch of the minister. It is astonishing and confusing to note that under the minster’s watch, an agency like REA is currently implementing a three-megawatt power project valued at N5.2bn or $5.6m per megawatt in Sokoto; and another two-megawatt plant in Anambra valued at N4.04bn or $2.02m per megawatt from taxpayers’ funds. “Why is this remarkable? It is remarkable because the government had robustly challenged, as exorbitant, the proposed price of $1.5m/MW put forward by power developers from the private sector and sought a reduction of same. Should the unserved rural dwellers, who should be legitimate beneficiaries of REA’s funding and services, continue to live in darkness due to the ministry’s and REA’s misguided priorities?” It is not enough to just dismiss ANED’s claims and term them as saboteurs. I will like to see our power minister responding to some specifics. For example, is the NERC Daily Energy Watch, quoted by ANED, which showed that Nigeria was close to 7000MW, as at January 28, 2015, fake? Is it true or false that the federal government is building a three-megawatt power project at $5.6m per megawatt in Sokoto; and another two-megawatt plant in Anambra at $2.02m per megawatt, after turning down a $1.5m per megawatt proposal? Just as I stated last week, Nigerians want stable electricity supply with pre-paid meters in our homes, offices and factories; not bogus stories about improved generation without any impact. The Unending War against Bukola Saraki From the tone of the Presidency’s reaction to the persistent invitation of President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, by the Police over the Offa robbery incident, one can safely conclude that the police have not been acting independently. I am not sorry to say that the press statement by the Presidency simply mocked and celebrated Saraki’s persistent harassment by the police. Just read this: “It is odd, strange and bizarre that while ordinary citizens can be called up to answer questions or be interrogated, the VIP cannot be questioned without the annoying insinuations of partisanship, persecution or outright politicisation. This country cannot achieve development in peace when important cases are viewed through political prisms and the law is considered as being applicable to some, and not applicable to others. The nation’s constitution had clearly directed law enforcement agencies to promptly report and investigate any actual or potential infringement of the law and to also initiate proceedings against all those involved.” It is preposterous seeing the Presidency defending the Police. We all can now see the hand writing on the wall. Is the Presidency unaware that the police did not go after Senator Ovie Omo-Agege after he invaded the Senate and allegedly made away with the mace? If we are talking about respect for the constitution, why are law enforcement agents still detaining Sambo Dasuki despite the bails granted him by several courts? Why is El-Zakzaky still in detention despite bail granted him? Why did IGP Ibrahim Idris refuse to appear before the Senate to answer question on raging insecurity in the country? Why are killer herders still roaming unhindered? Why is it that bandits are still maiming and killing in the North-west? I guess our security agencies are waiting for instruction from above. The politicisation of police investigations and summons must end. N149bn Extra-budgetary Expenditure in a Change Era I have been studying flakes of the annual report of the Auditor-General of the Federation in which 308 federal Ministries, Department and Agencies were queried over N149.5bn extra-budgetary spending in 2016. This report, a symptom of poor budgeting and accounting, is incriminating and heart-wrenching. At a point, I thought agents of the government would come out to debunk it but this did not happen. So, it is real. The Auditor-General of the Federation, Anthony Ayine displayed great courage in exposing these anomalies in an era of “change”. The 2016 audit report, the latest to be prepared by the OAGF for all the MDAs, showed that it is still business as usual in the MDAs. Nothing has changed. Well, nothing can change because even Vice President Yemi Osinbajo’s office was queried for N78.9m extra-budgetary spending. The AGF lamented that despite audit queries raised by the office asking for clarifications from the agencies, many of them never responded: “The MDAs and their accounting officers are reverting to the situation in the past where they did not promptly respond to audit observations. I am concerned about this development, which is a major setback to our accountability process. Where accounting officers fail to respond to audit queries, the implication is that they have no explanation to offer.” Those parroting change and accountability should read this report and please keep quiet for once. I was told that the 2017 report is even more embarrassing, with frightening extra-budgetary spending. What a country! Let’s await official response. Marginalisation of South-east in Appointments It was heartwarming seeing South-east senators standing up to the senseless marginalisation of the region in federal appointments on the floors of the red chambers. Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, deserves accolades for leading the battle against persistent lopsidedness in appointments into federal boards by President Buhari. His appointments since assumption of office do not reflect federal character and national unity. The South-east has been worse off. Buhari is not even making any effort to win the confidence of the Igbo. Section 14(3) of the 1999 Constitution emphatically stated that the composition of the government of the federation or any of its agencies and the conduct of its affairs shall be carried out in such a manner as to reflect federal character and the need to promote national loyalty. This constitutional provision is to ensure that there shall be no predominance of a few states or a few ethnic groups or other factional divisions in government or any of its agencies. Unfortunately, our President cares less about this crucial section of the constitution. Ekweremadu was apt when he said: “I am concerned about how government has been directing its appointments. I don’t have any problem with any part of Nigeria but I have problem with the way the government is directing its appointment. This is completely unfair; we can’t sit in this Senate and allow that to go; so, I believe we need to send it back to the federal government to ensure that every part of Nigeria is represented.” It is a shame that the representatives of the South-east in Buhari’s cabinet are unperturbed by the marginalisation of the region. Ekweremadu and the rest must go beyond protesting. They must reach out to like-minded law makers in the Senate and ensure that subsequent lopsided appointments brought for approval are rejected. Ganduje and Kano’s 3 million Out-of-school Children I was unimpressed about Governor Abdullahi Ganduje’s recent alarm about out-of-school children in Kano State. He told an audience at the Royal Institute of International Affairs, Chatham House, United Kingdom, that three million children are out-of-school in his state alone. In Nigeria, over 10.5 million children are out-of-school, according to UNESCO, and this is the highest anywhere in the world. Ganduje did not say anything new about Kano out-of-school children at the Chatham House. I thought part of his lecture would shed light on what he had been doing in over three years to change this narrative? He did not do this. I suspect Ganduje has nothing to showcase in terms of reducing out-of-school children in his beloved state. If there is anything to the contrary, let this governor tell Nigerians. 