Bassey Inyang in Calabar The Investment and Securities Tribunal (IST) have commenced moves to update the knowledge of the judiciary and members of the legal profession and other stakeholders in the capital market from Cross River and Akwa Ibom States with information on the tribunal and Jurisprudence of investments and securities laws, practice and procedure. At a three-day workshop, which commenced in Calabar on Monday for the judicial officers , lawyers and capital market stakeholders, the Chairman of IST, Isaiah Idoko-Akoh, said the workshop is aimed at familiarising the participants with emerging trends in capital market jurisprudence and the operations of the IST. “It seeks to expose capital market adjudication as a robust and emerging jurisprudence in the country; to bring to the attention of judges and legal practitioners the existence of the special jurisdiction of the tribunal; to kindle the interest of the public to take opportunities to invest and enjoy the protections available for investors in the capital market; and draw attention of educators , mentors , parents and young graduates to seek training/employment and develop career in the capital market industry among others,” he said. Idoko-Akoh said Cross River and Akwa Ibom cannot to remain in the fringes as players in the nation’s capital market industry which is considered as the engine room of any modern society. The chairman said the initiative was novel and designed to play a vital role in the national economy and justice administration. According to him, it was imperative to continue to apprise relevant stakeholders with useful information of the objectives, jurisprudence, practice and procedure of the higher court. The chairman said that it was important to stage the workshop in order to map out strategies towards realising the mandates spelt for the IST. He said the workshop would expose capital market adjudication as a robust and emerging jurisprudence, bring to the knowledge of judges and legal practitioners the existence of specialised laws guarding capital market operations as well as kindle interest of the public to take opportunities to invest and enjoy lawful protection. The Chief Judge of Cross River State and the Chief Judge of Akwa Ibom State were among the participants that addressed the workshop while the Deputy Governor of Cross River, Professor Ivara Esu, declared the workshop open. Several topics were presented by experts such as “Understanding the Nigerian Capital Market” by Emeka Madubuike, a stockbroker. Another paper was “Investing in the Nigerian Capital Market” by Mr. Dave Enejoh a Fellow of Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria.