Omololu Ogunmade in Abuja Senator representing Kaduna Central, Shehu Sani, Wednesday night in the Presidential Villa, Abuja, told journalists that the prevalent system of iniquity and injustice in the All Progressives Congress (APC) led to a revolt which forced some members out. Sani made this submission after 42 APC senators met with President Muhammadu Buhari following the defection of 14 of them to other political parties on Tuesday. He said he had opted to attend the meeting not because his grievances had been addressed but rather because the new party leadership had shown the political will to resolve the matter. He said he had chosen to attend the meeting because he believed in the new leadership of the party as well as the personality of Buhari.
He also pointed out that he believed that there was no problem that couldn’t be resolved. “I’m here as a member of the APC caucus in the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and my presence here does not mean that my issues have been solved 100 percent but I am of the belief that we have a leader in the party who is doing everything possible to see that the problems that we have that led to a situation of revolt against the system of iniquity and injustice are resolved. “So, I am here because I believe in the leadership of the party and I believe also in the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari and I’m also of the belief that there is no issue that we cannot solve as human beings, as men of conscience and conviction,” Sani said. Also speaking, the National Chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole, said the senators came in large numbers to the meeting to show that APC still had the largest number of senators and members of the House of Representatives. According to him, APC remained focused on its goals to provide good governance to Nigerians. Oshiomhole said the meeting was initiated by the senators in expression of their solidarity for both the president and his administration. “The senators have come in huge numbers to prove that the APC remains the party with the largest number of senators as well as members in the House of Representatives; also to prove that we still have what it takes to continue to provide good governance for Nigeria. “We have agreed that going forward, the APC cannot be intimidated, the government will not be intimidated or distracted. We remain focused and committed to addressing the critical challenges that confront our country, namely: security, economy and fight against corruption. “On all the three, the president is consistent and determined and the senators have come to reassure him of their full backing on these three core commitments which we have made to the Nigerian people and for me as party chairman, we are very excited,” he said. In his own submission, the Senate Leader, Ahmad Lawan, said their visit to the Villa was meant to brief Buhari on the episode which led to the defection of 14 senators to opposition parties on Tuesday. Echoing Oshiomhole, Lawan who said APC still had majority membership in the Senate, claimed that some of those who left had expressed their willingness to return.
Furthermore, Lawan said with the commitment of Oshiomhole to engage aggrieved persons, sanity would return to the party. “We have come to pay a courtesy call on our leader, the president of this country and then inform him about what happened yesterday (Tuesday) in the Senate and indeed the National Assembly; the defection by some of our colleagues from the APC to the Peples Democratic Party, the PDP and various political parties. We informed the President of how we stand in the Senate. “As at today, the APC caucus in the Senate is 53 in number, followed by the largest minority party, the PDP with 48 senators, and then the ADC with 2 Senators, APGA has 2 senators. We have two vacant seats which were occupied by APC senators who are late now. By the grace of God, there will be election into those two seats on August 11 and hopefully the APC will clinch both and our number of senators will swell to 55. “Let me also say that even from Tuesday, less than 24 hours into the defection, we had discussions with some of our colleagues who defected and they have shown their willingness and interest to retrace their steps. “So, we are working very hard round the clock, with our party’s national leadership led by the very hardworking Adams Oshiomhole, to ensure that we re-engage with our colleagues that defected and that we reach some understanding and resolutions that will enable them to come back home very soon. Even some PDP senators have indicated their readiness to come into the APC fold,” he stated.