Deji Elumoye in Abuja The Nigeria Press Organisation (NPO), Broadcasting Organisation of Nigeria (BON), and other stakeholders in the media industry on Monday formally presented a position paper asking the Senate to drop forthwith the ‘Nigerian Press Council Bill 2018’. The media stakeholders in a three-page position paper presented by the NPAN President, Mr. Nduka Obaigbena, at a public hearing on the Nigerian Press Council Act 1992 (Repeal and Enactment Bill 2018) said the Bill should be put on hold “until the determination of a similar case in the Supreme Court”. Those who signed the position paper rejecting the Bill include Obaigbena; BON Chairman, Mr. John Momoh; President, Nigeria Union of Journalists, NUJ, Mr. Waheed Odusile; President, Nigerian Guild of Editors, NEG, Mrs. Funke Egbemode; Executive Director, Institute for Media and Society, Dr. Akin Akingbulu; Director, Media Law Centre, Mr. Richard Akinnola; and Director, International Press Centre, Mr. Lanre Arogundade. According to the stakeholders, the Senate rather than repealing the NPC Act should borrow from best practices in other climes which expressly provided for and guaranteed press freedom without any form of government interference. They further urged the National Assembly to provide enabling environment for the media to thrive in the exercise of its constitutional obligations as spelt out in Section 22 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) ” by passing laws that will promote transparency, accountability and open government such as mandatory delivery of the State of the Nation address by the President and State of the State by the Governor on specified days of the years”. Describing the Bill as unconstitutional, draconian and anti-press freedom, the stakeholders emphasised that the Bill seeks to criminalise journalism practise despite the fact that laws of the country already have enough provisions and avenues for seeking legal redress. They added that provisions of the Bill also violates Article 9 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples Rights(Ratification and Enforcement Act) No 2 of 1983 to which Nigeria is a signatory and now part of the country’s laws. “The Bill through some of its other obnoxious provisions seeks to indoctrinate Nigerians through the use and misuse of curricula in training of journalists and usurp the powers of the regulatory bodies in the educational sector affecting media training especially the National Universities Commission and National Board for Technical Education “The Bill seeks to create the impression that the Nigerian media community does not take the issues of ethics and self regulation seriously whereas the mechanisms actually exist including the Code of Conduct for Journalists in Nigeria, the Ethics Committees of the NUJ and NEG and the recently launched Nigerian Media Code of Election Coverage endorsed by stakeholders “ Media stakeholders present at the public hearing apart from the signatories include Publisher of Vanguard Newspapers, Mr. Sam Amuka, and Veteran journalist, Alhaji Isa Funtua. More details later…