• Resolve to jointly tackle insecurity •Buhari seeks inter-regional collaboration Omololu Ogunmade in Abuja
Heads of states and governments of the West and Central African regions yesterday in Lome, the Togolese capital, decried the violence being unleashed on farmers in the regions by herders, blaming it on adverse effects of climate change. The is coming as President Muhammadu Buhari has strongly appealed for inter-regional collaboration on maritime security, fight against terrorism and other crimes through effective border control. The position of the heads states was contained in a communiqué issued at the end of the joint summit of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), and the Economic Community of Central African States (ECCAS), which was issued last night. According to the communiqué, known as ‘Lome Declaration’, the heads of states resolved to cooperate with one another in the efforts to prevent conflicts and promote peace and stability in the two regions. According to them, security challenges that bedeviled the West and Central Africa, such as terrorism, human, drugs and arms trafficking, money laundering and cybercrimes have continued to be on the increase. ECOWAS Chairman and Togolese President, Faure Gnassingbe, reportedly told his colleagues at the opening of the summit that the geographical proximity of Western and Central Africa had made cooperation on security and trade relations inevitable. “The borders we share make us vulnerable to external influences; it is imperative that we find a common approach to protecting our people from the dangers of these influences by writing a new page to work together for better living for our people. The cross – border nature of the security threats we face should not hinder our trade relations and other beneficial interventions,” he said. Also speaking at the event, Special Representative of the United Nations (UN) Secretary General and Head of the UN Office for West Africa, Muhammad Ibn Chambers, said Africa must work hard to address the root causes of insecurity and terrorism. Chambers also reportedly called for increased efforts by the leaders to save the Lake Chad region from drought with a view to reducing the incessant herders’ violence across West Africa.
Meanwhile, President Buhari yesterday in Lome, strongly appealed for inter-regional collaboration on maritime security, fight against terrorism and other crimes through effective border control. Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu said Buhari made the call while contributing to the consideration and adoption of the draft declaration by the Economic Community of Central African States (ECCAS) and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) on peace, security, stability and the fight against terrorism and violent extremism in the Togolese capital. “Respect for rule of law, democracy and promotion of human rights are also vital as they are attributes of good governance, which would enhance the socio-economic development of the two regions,” he stated. According to the statement, Buhari said “it is also noteworthy to state that the subsisting collaboration among Nigeria, Chad, Cameroun, Niger and Benin in the fight against transnational crimes and proliferation of small arms and light weapons is exemplary.”
The president, the statement added,said “Nigeria’s collaboration with the Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC), which is mandated to protect our environment, is existential because of the imperative to preserve the Lake Chad.” Furthermore, it said Buhari observed that the Lake which had shrunk by 90 per cent,” has directly led to economic hardship in the region, which has in turn created the enabling environment for the radicalisation of the youth.” The statement also said the president called for greater focus on the refilling of the Lake Chad “as a long-term solution to one of the root causes of this existential threat.”
According to the statement, the joint West, Central African summit was long overdue given the shared history and cultural ties of the two sub-regions and the common challenges facing them. Buhari was further quoted: “Nigeria shares boundaries with two important ECCAS Members; Cameroun and Chad, with whom we share the same security threats, especially terrorism, illicit trafficking of small arms and light weapons, human and drug trafficking, smuggling among others.”Therefore, collaboration between our two sub-regions has become inevitable at this time to enable us effectively confront the existing challenges.” Buhari, the statement also said, added that such proximity informed his engagement with the neighbouring countries when he came to power in 2015, leading to the formation of “a common front to combating Boko Haram insurgency” through the Multi-national Joint Task Force (MNJTF) by the countries of the Lake Chad Basin Commission – Cameroun, Chad, Niger, Nigeria and Benin.