It is not uncommon that after every World Cup, clubs would be scrambling for the signatures of players that soared in the Mundial and the recently concluded one in Russia, is no exception as various European clubs in an attempt to solidify their teams have been going after players that made waves in Russia. Nigeria may not have made it past the group stage, yet some clubs still recognised one or two talents that distinguished themselves at the competition. It, therefore, came as a little surprise that Italian side, Lazio are hoping to sign Nigerian striker, Simeon Nwankwo Following seven goals in Serie A last season and two cameo appearances with Nigeria’s Super Eagles at the World Cup in Russia, the stock of Simeon Nwankwo seems to have escalated, such that Crotone is finding it difficult to keep hold of him into the coming campaign. Their biggest tussle is now up against Lazio, who is said to have extended their dragnet to scoop Nwankwo, based on the long history they have with other talented Nigerian players. One of the Rome-based club’s former players, Stephen Ayodele Makinwa is the one Lazio are now using to ensure they get their desired target of hooking Simy, a nickname for Simeon, for the new campaign in Italy. Simy still has a year left on his contract at Crotone, who were relegated on the final day of this past season, but could be joining Eddy Ogenyi Onazi’s former club after the World Cup. His rush of late goals did not help save modest Crotone from dropping to the lower Serie B, but at least it has alerted top clubs to take notice of what he can do at the club. “There are several top clubs in Serie A like Lazio who want to sign Simy, but we just have to wait and see what happens after the World Cup. But is almost certain that he will be staying put in Serie A,” a credible source disclosed. Lazio is willing to pay as high as €10m to grab Simy, but Crotone is hanging on much longer to see if they will be reinstated in the Serie A before deciding on his potential sale. Simy ended last season on a high, but it was still not enough to help Crotone remain in the Italian top-flight, but they could be reinstated with the positions of Parma and Chievo under threat due to ongoing investigations affecting them. Parma is accused of attempted match-fixing for a game against La Spezia in Serie B last season, while Chievo faces punishment for falsely accounting the transfer details of 30 players with Cesena. While the wait lingers, Lazio have already mandated Makinwa to push through the move for Simy, with high hopes that the former striker’s position as a players’ representative will help lure the Super Eagles rookie to Stadio Olimpico next season. In a chat with THISDAY, former Nigerian international, Paul Okoku, said it was natural for players’ profile to rise after the World Cup. “It is just natural for clubs to go after players after starring for their countries in the World Cup. For a player to make the team for his country shows he is good. Forget the fact that the Super Eagles did not qualify from the group stage, the truth remains that they still put up a good show. After all, they only lost the second round ticket with only four minutes to full time against Argentina. After losing their first game to Croatia due to a tactical error, the team bounced back against Iceland and in the last group game against Argentina, Nigeria was already coasting home before conceding a last minute goal. But when you also consider that defending champions and favourites , Germany came last in their group you would then realise that the Super Eagles are not that terrible but luck was just not on their side,” Okoku noted. Speaking further, the 1984 Africa Cup of Nations silver medalist said there were still some players in the team that distinguished themselves in spite of not qualifying from the group stage. “Individually, we have some players that had outstanding tournament and clubs would naturally go after those ones to beef up their teams for the coming season,” he said. For Friday Ekpo, he felt Super Eagles Manager, Gernot Rohr did not really utilise the potential he had in Nwankwo, saying with his height and physical presence, the result might have been different against Argentina, rather than his late introduction in the encounter. “It was just unfortunate that Nwankwo did not have enough playing time at the Mundial, the whole world would have seen his potentials and by now a lot of European clubs would have been seeking for his services. However, he is still very young and has years behind him to fulfill his ambition. With the Africa Cup of Nations still around the corner and another World Cup just four years from now, there is no way Coach Gernot Rohr could ignore his potentials and I’m optimistic he would surely explode,” Ekpo reasoned. Speaking in the same vein, Ifeayi Udeze, who represented Nigeria at the 2002 World Cup in Japan-Korea, said respect automatically comes with appearing at the World Cup, and all that the player needed to do is to grab the opportunity that comes his way to earn the respect. “On returning from the World Cup for Nigeria, Spanish side, Deportivo La Corona had promoted Super Eagles goalkeeper, Francis Uzoho to the first team and he had since started training with the first team. It is now left for him to cash-in on the opportunity. That is what going to the Mundial comes along with,” Udeze said. It, however, remains to be seen if Lazio would be able to meet Crotone asking price for Nwankwo as the Italian club have upped their asking price for Nigerian striker to 15 million Euros. Crotone, who will feature in Serie B in the coming season after they were relegated from the top flight this past campaign, were ready to let go their Nigerian goal-machine for a princely seven million Euros before the World Cup in Russia. But after the big centre-forward made the final cut to Russia 2018 and even played a handful of minutes at the World Cup, Crotone have now doubled their valuation of the player. “Lazio were ready to pay seven million Euros for Simy before the World Cup and it even looked like a deal would be sealed. However, since after the World Cup, Crotone are asking for 15 million Euros,” a top source told only SCORENigeria. The 25-year-old scored seven goals in Serie A last season including a spectacular over-head effort against champions Juventus. He still has a year left on his contract with the modest Italian club. 