Stanbic IBTC has disclosed that it recently won five out of nine awards at the HR People Magazine Awards 2018 held recently in Lagos. The five awards won by the bank included: Best Training, Learning & Development Strategy 2017; Outstanding Employee Engagement Strategy 2017; Employer of Choice 2017 (large corporates category); HR Manager of the Year 2017; and HR Champion of the Year 2017 (awarded to the Group Chief Executive for outstanding commitment to growing people at the organisation). According to the organisers, among other things, the awards were evidence-based, and the criteria used to select winners included a demonstrable and effective strategy to drive the HR touchpoints in all the award categories. The Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc, Mr Yinka Sanni, while commenting on the award, stated that the feat was a proof of Stanbic IBTC’s strategy of growing a responsible, disciplined, and highly productive workforce. He said it also reinforces the company’s strong management, systems and its leadership in the financial services industry. According to Sanni, the awards were also a testament to Stanbic IBTC’s continuous investments in its human capital and the establishment of people-friendly procedures and practices, as well as a professional but friendly work environment and a support structure that helps to motivate the employees to give their best while exhibiting their talents. “We are delighted to be recognised in five different categories out of nine for our strong human capital strategies and deliberate and consistent investments in our people. “For us, a highly motivated workforce, one that can deliver better services, is a function of the level of investment in the human capital for professional and personal development that helps to create a productive workforce whilst fulfilling individual career aspirations. “These awards will energise us to continue to fine-tune our strategies and provide our people with the right environment, the right tools and adequate incentives to win their commitment as well as grow our people,” Sanni added. Speaking on the rationale for the awards, Editor-in-Chief of HR People Magazine, Dapo Saheed, said the awards were instituted to celebrate individuals and organisations that had invested in their workforces and are committed to strategies that help to engender best practices in HR and efficient business outcomes.