Funmi Ogundare It was celebration all the way as ChristHill College, Amuwo Odofin, Lagos, recently held its 2018 graduation, prize giving and awards ceremony for 32 students with an appeal to the graduands to be the best they can and take responsibility for their lives as they go into the higher institutions. In his remarks, the Principal, Mr. Edosa Omoregie, described the graduating class as excellent achievers and amazing by their performance in the West African Senior Secondary School Certicate Examinations (WASSCE), while admonishing them to use their God-given talents wisely. “You are the best in the world and God has given you talents. The road ahead is long with no ending . I pray that God will grant you the vision, knowledge and understanding as you go ahead in life, ” he said. He listed some of the competitions the students had participated in and won to include ;national essay competition, Nigerian Spelling Bee (Southwest qualifiers) , inter-school Mastermind Science competition and basketball competition, among others , while commending the school’s management and Parents Teachers’ Association (PTA) for its support . The Director , Mrs. Omotunde Lawson who emphasised on the efforts the school has made over the years in ensuring that no child is left behind in getting quality education, commended the teachers for impacting the students and their commitment to duty. She appealed to parents to be up and doing in bringing up their children properly and ensure that they meet up their obligations to the school through payment of fees as and when due. In his valedictory speech, the Head boy, Master Daniel Adekunle who represented the school in Nigerian Spelling Bee (Southwest qualifiers) and Fellowship of Ex-Christian Students Association (FECA), described their experiences as having tremendously helped to shape their decisions as students saying, “we have met some really amazing people, both students and staff who have brought out the best in us, groomed us and taught us how to be independent-minded.” He advised his colleagues to “always keep pushing because we know we can achieve our dreams. Leaving this college to face the world is a painstaking transition from the known to the unknown. There will be many obstacles, potholes and roadblocks. There will be times when we feel like throwing in the towel, but always remember that you are not alone in this journey.” The Head girl, Miss Emmanuella Osuofia said the school gave them the opportunity to be what they want to be, while thanking the management for their effects.. She advised her colleges saying, “as you continue your journey from this school, you should cherish this particular period in your life. The tears will not stop, but they are tears of joy.” Awards were given to students who excelled in their academics, outstanding humanitarian, outstanding improvement, outstanding student of the year, neatness and well behaved, as well as for staff for their outstanding performance and commitment to content development.