 As foremost e-commerce firm, Konga concludes its sixth anniversary ‘Big 6’ promo tomorrow, the company has expressed satisfaction in the turnout and feedback it got from consumers which further portrayed it as a trusted brand. The ‘Big 6’ promo is a major initiative of the company to appreciate its pillars, customers, who have ensured its sustainability in the past six years. The responses from customers got the company more delighted in that it was able to bring smiles to faces of shoppers. Beyond this, the promo was launched to commemorate the retailer’s outstanding strides and innovations in the Nigerian e-commerce eco-system. The one week promotional sales which kicked off officially on Monday, July 23 ran on the firm’s online and offline stores with a huge number of customers rushing at both platforms to take advantage of the lowest price sales. The sales saw millions of products from the store’s inventory went on sale at unbeatable prices on both the online and physical stores nationwide whereas the company added a new  dimension  with a bold declaration of best prices unmatched anywhere else in the market and ready to  do a refund to customers who find a better price for a genuine product sourced from its manufacturers. Among the wide array of products on offer were mobile phones, laptops, computing products and accessories, home and kitchen appliances, electronics, fashion items, consumer items, among others. Furthermore, the company thrilled customers with  several incentives as well as add-ons  including freebies, shopping vouchers, free delivery on specific items, flash sales and special giveaways to excite shoppers as well as deliver more value throughout the duration of the promotion. Chief Executive Officer of Konga Online, Nick Imudia reiterated that that the 6th Anniversary promotion was thought of to appreciate customers for their loyalty to the brand. He said: “As a result of this initiative, we are offering our customers a chance to shop genuine products from the biggest brands at rock-bottom prices that cannot be matched in the market. We are also offering speedy delivery and free shipping on several items, thereby providing more value for money to our customers. In addition, there are loads of freebies and other special offers on each day of the promotion for shoppers. It is our own little way of appreciating our customers for their patronage and for keeping faith with us as we redefine e-commerce in Nigeria and beyond.” On his part, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Offline, Prince Nnamdi Ekeh, affirmed that the firm has since inception, consistently raised the bar of excellent service delivery in the industry – a journey he claimed is just beginning in view of the many exciting innovations the company plans to unveil. “Konga is not only one of the pioneers of the e-commerce revolution in Nigeria but has remained in the forefront of driving higher standards and solutions to improve the customer experience. “We are determined to continue leading from the front and this justifies the hard work we are putting in to come up with several innovations that will further elevate standards and widen the service offerings in the e-commerce space,” he stressed. Head, Corporate Communications, Zinox Group, Gideon Ayogu, added: “Since the commencement of the sales, we have experienced a significant spike in traffic online and in the retail stores nationwide and this  is largely due to the unbeatable deals and other mouth-watering offers we have put together for the promo. We are happy because our customers are happy.”