Seven years after its market introduction, the Lamborghini Aventador achieves an important milestone in its history with 8,000 units produced. Chassis number 8,000 is an Aventador S Roadster: the model in Grigio Telesto will be delivered to a customer in Japan. After just four years of production Huracán number 11,000 rolled off the assembly line. The Blue Nethuns car, chassis number 11,000, is destined for the Italian market. Automobili Lamborghini’s worldwide deliveries increased by 11% to 2,327 cars in the first half of 2018. Global sales of the Huracán model line with coupé and Spyder as well as racecar versions, showed an increase from 1,400 to 1,604 units. The Aventador line maintained the high level of the previous period with 673 units delivered. Meanwhile, the company reports another increase in worldwide deliveries. In the first six months (January 1 to June 30) of the current Fiscal Year 2018 the Italian super sports car maker delivered a total of 2,327 cars to customers around the world. Compared to the same period in the previous year this is an increase of 11%. These figures mark another record and even surpass the full year sales numbers of only five years ago. “Lamborghini continues to be in consistently good shape. Delivering another new all-time high, for the fourth consecutive half year, confirms the sustainability of our brand, product and commercial strategy. The success is all the more remarkable as we master the unprecedented double challenge of creating new models in our super sports car range, while simultaneously ramping up the production of our highly acclaimed Super SUV Urus. This quantum leap in the longstanding history of Lamborghini is only possible due to the passion, dedication and competence of our unrivalled team,” says Stefano Domenicali, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Automobili Lamborghini S.p.A. In July the first customer deliveries of the Lamborghini Urus are to start. Thus, the half-year growth is based mainly on further increased sales of the two super sports car model lines Huracán and Aventador. Boosted by rocketing sales of the Huracán Performante, global sales of the Huracán model line with Coupé, Spyder and racecar versions showed an increase from 1,400 to 1,604 units. The Aventador line maintained the high level of the previous period with 673 units delivered. The largest single market for Lamborghini once again was the US, followed by Japan and the United Kingdom. The strongest region was Europe with an increase of more than 30%. Within Europe, Italy, the UK and Austria showed the highest growth rates.  The outlook for Lamborghini continues to be strongly positive. The company has successfully completed the massive investment phase in the new development and production sites for the Urus model line at the Sant’Agata Bolognese Headquarters. Stefano Domenicali underlines: “After crossing the billion Euro turnover threshold for the first time in 2017, and with the first deliveries of our Super SUV starting, the stage is set for us to enter a new dimension for the company, while never compromising the exclusivity of our brand.” The company confirms its expectation of sustained solid growth for the reminder of the 2018 financial year. 