*Stakeholders indict judges in delays in trial of corruption-related cases. By Alex Enumah in Abuja A former President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Isa Ayo Salami, has warned against the practice of engaging private legal practitioners in the prosecution of corruption-related cases by the federal government. Salami, who hinged the advice on the recent judgment of the Supreme Court in a case involving a senior politician, remarked that whereas lawyers from the government chambers show more commitment because of their career and other factors, private lawyers, he said, are more concerned about the legal fees. He spoke at a seminar organised by the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC) in conjunction with Centre for Socio-Legal Studies (CSLS). The seminar tagged: “The ACJA 2015 and the Preservation of Constitutional Safeguard” aims at making the provisions of the law more effective. The former Court of Appeal President, who noted that when it is inevitable for government to engage private lawyers in such cases, the government should ensure that the lawyer is not from the same state or region as the defendant to avoid compromise. “The practice of appointing private practitioners to handle corruption-related cases should be discouraged as the standard of proof in civil matters is on the ‘balance of probability’ while in criminal cases, the standard is ‘proof beyond reasonable doubt’. “The Supreme Court recently held that at trial, where evidence is readily available but not called, a prima facie case would not have been made out against the accused. Consequently, the Attorney General of the Federation should be meticulous in the selection of prosecution lawyers and only professionals who have garnered experience over the years with specialty in criminal litigation should be assigned corruption related cases,” he said. Only recently, the Supreme Court had discharged Senate President Bukola Saraki of allegations of false asset declaration on the grounds that the federal government failed to call relevant witnesses to prove the charges. Speaking further, Salami recommended that the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) through its Department of Public Prosecution (DPP) should be “exclusively saddled with the responsibility of handling corruption related cases as they have their careers at stake as against appointing private practitioners who have nothing to lose and whose interest is simply the earning of their fees”. “However, where it becomes inevitable to appoint private practitioners to prosecute serving and past public office holders, particularly governors, the prosecutor retained to handle the case should not come from the same state as the accused,” he said. Salami further advocated the removal of the office of the DPP from under the AGF and guarantee the security of their tenure if the war on corruption must produce result. While he urged the National Judicial Council (NJC) to always ensure that eminently qualified and competent persons be recommended to the government for appointment as judges, he advised the PACAC to endeavour to carry out a personal check on those recommended to avoid putting incompetent and corrupt people on the bench. Other speakers who include the Chairman of PACAC, Prof. Itself Sagay, Prof. Fidelis Oditah, John Baiyeshea and Wahab Shittu, amongst others, however harped on the need for judges to be in control of their courts and apply necessary rules of court to check the abuse of procedural tools. According to Oditah, “We urgently need our courts to exercise stronger case management powers free from appellate court interference. The aim of a managed system of dispute resolution is to ensure that cases are disposed of fairly and justly and above all that each case is allotted its appropriate share of the court’s resources.” Sagay on his part however indicted some senior advocates as being the major threat to the war against corruption in the country. He said although the senior advocates may know the truth yet, they would lie and employ all kinds of delay tactics to frustrate trial of those, who according to him, have looted the collective resources of the people.