The Rotary International District 9142, Nigeria, yesterday honoured Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State with a “Distinguished Service Award of Excellence in Governance” for his outstanding performance in office. The prestigious award was presented the governor at a colourful dinner in his honour, after the installation ceremony of the 2nd District Governor of the Club, Rotarian Dr. Dan Ajawara, held at The Base Event Centre, Enugu. Presenting the award, the newly installed District Governor, Ajawara, described Ugwuanyi as “a humble, humane, unassuming and visionary leader, who leads by example”, adding that it was based on his sterling performance and leadership qualities that “we are honouring him today”.
Ajawara noted that it was rare for Rotarians to come together to honour a sitting governor, disclosing that they are apolitical. He stressed that Ugwuanyi as a Rotarian and governor has kept faith with the ideals of the Rotary Club through his people-centered programmes that “touch people’s lives in so many ways”, saying: “The people have unanimously agreed he (Ugwuanyi) will continue leading them”. According to him, “Rotary is not into politics. We take note of the people’s feelings and that is why we are honouring him (Ugwuanyi) today with this Distinguished Service Award of Excellence in Governance. The Coal City experience is really imparting positively on the people. We hope that this honour will spur you to do more”.
Responding, Gov. Ugwuanyi, who appreciated the District for finding him worthy of conferment with its highest award, described the gesture as a great honour. He paid special respect to the Chairman of the occasion and former Head of State, Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, who was represented by Chief Emeka Eze and other dignitaries at the event and “heartily congratulated” Ajawara on his installation as the 2nd District Governor. Ugwuanyi pointed out that as a Rotarian and former President of the club in Emene, he was “very much conversant with the aims, objectives and the ideals of the Rotary Club as well as the excitement and joy that accompany the installation of a new District Governor”. He, therefore, expressed optimism that Dr. Ajawara will succeed as he “has all it takes to lift the District to greater heights in the service of humanity”. The governor used the occasion to reaffirm his commitment to continue to promote the ideals of the 4-Way Test of the noble Club and bring them to bear on his personal life and discharge of his duties “as the Chief Servant of the people of Enugu State”. “We remain grateful to the Rotary Club for its many years of partnership and assistance to the Enugu State government in helping to spread the message of hope, comradeship and solidarity among all classes of people especially through the provision of communal facilities and attending to the needs of the poor.
“While also thankful for the decision to host this historic occasion in Enugu, we wish to pledge our continued support and cooperation towards the attainment of our common objectives and the noble ideals of the Club”, the added.