The latest model of the G-Class has been reinterpreted, with the brand staying true to its iconic design, leaving minimal changes from its first predecessor, the 230G. The exterior of the new G-Class pays tribute to classic features like the distinctive door handle and the characteristic closing sound, the robust exterior protective strip, the exposed spare wheel on the rear door and the prominent indicator lights. While the exterior maintains the iconic classic look, the interior of the G-Class has undergone a fundamental modern redesign which reinterprets the genes of the classic vehicle to reflect the exterior. The new Mercedes-Benz G-Class presents itself in the upmost standard. Whether on or off the road and whatever the operating conditions, the off-road vehicle impresses with its performance, cutting-edge assistance systems, outstanding handling, and safety. Weststar Associates Limited, the Authorized General Distributors of Mercedes-Benz in Nigeria will have the new G-Class available for sale at Authorized dealerships by November 2018. Getting in the G-Class reveals that numerous design features from the exterior have been transposed into the interior. These include the shape of the round headlamps, for instance, which is reflected in the side air vents and the design of the iconic indicators, found again in the shape of the loudspeakers. Hallmarks of the G-Class include the grab handle in front of the front passenger and the chrome-highlighted switches for the three differential locks. Both have been meticulously optimized and retained as characteristic features. Another highlight is an instrument cluster in the form of a large display showing virtual instruments in the driver’s direct field of vision and a central display above the center console available as an option. In this case the two 12.3-inch displays blend visually into a Widescreen Cockpit beneath a shared glass cover. Drivers can choose between three different styles for the displays – “Classic”, “Sport” and “Progressive” and also select relevant information and views according to their individual needs. The seats in the G-Class are equipped as standard with numerous convenience functions and are ergonomically designed, thus providing enhanced seating comfort and lateral support. The new G-Class performs even better off-road, while on the road it is significantly more agile, dynamic and comfortable than its predecessor. This new suspension emerged from the collaboration between Mercedes-Benz G GmbH and Mercedes-AMG GmbH. The result is an independent suspension with double-wishbone front axle in combination with a rigid rear axle. As part of their work, the engineers had the task of fighting for every millimeter, because off-road capability not least, also means maximum ground clearance. The raising of the axles makes a decisive contribution in this respect, while requiring a strut tower brace in the engine compartment to achieve the ruggedness objectives. The specification for the G-Class not only includes solidness and superiority in terrain, but also greater driving dynamics and comfort on paved roads. Thanks to the new front axle design, the on-road performance of the G-Class has therefore been enhanced at the same time. On the road, the “G” is as agile as it is comfortable and provides the driver with a better steering feel. The off-roader stays on track more solidly, and is agile and effortless when driving off-road. In the new G 500 a high-performance 4.0-litre V8 petrol engine ensures powerful propulsion. The new biturbo produces an output of 310 kW (422 hp) and a maximum torque of 610 Nm at 2000 to 4750 rpm. For the transfer of power, the 9G-TRONIC automatic transmission with torque converter was specifically adapted to meet the needs of the off-road icon. The developers have managed to reduce the shift and response times of the 9-speed transmission by means of a dedicated software application. The wide transmission ratio not only makes driving quieter and more comfortable especially at low engine speeds, it simultaneously also contributes to reducing fuel consumption. 