Ecobank Nigeria has donated a water facility project to Abesan Primary School, Alimosho Local Government Area in Lagos State. This was part of the bank’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) and engagements in host communities. The project included a borehole, scaffolding water reservoir of 2000 litres, 14 taps points with pumping machines, generating set as source of alternate power supply, 6-room modern toilets facility and renovation of part of the school fence. Handing over the facilities to the Management of the school, Business Head, Commercial Banking and Public Sector, Ecobank Nigeria, Mr. Rotimi Morohunfola, was quoted in a statement to have said the execution of the projects was part of ‘Ecobank Day,’ which is a day set aside by the bank to reach out to the communities where it operates as part of its CSR initiative. According to him, this year’s programme was dedicated to promoting safe water for healthy living. Morohunfola said Ecobank believes in making a change in the lives of people within the communities where it does business in order to improve health and to foster economic growth. “We share the view that access to clean, safe drinkable and usable water should not be difficult. We understand the importance of water and its ability to soothe, rejuvenate, and heal,” he said. Furthermore, Morohunfola disclosed that the bank was involved in various CSR projects indifferent schools across the country of which Abesan Primary School is one. “This is part of a commitment by the Ecobank Group to promoting a conducive environment for learning in schools across Africa. Ecobank has a promise to support initiatives and partner in projects that impact and touch peoples’ lives.” Earlier, the Education Secretary, Alimosho Local Government Authourity, Airat Mojirade Alamu commended Ecobank for providing the borehole facility to the school. She stressed that the initiative strengthens community, private and public involvement and participation in the school development programme of the Lagos State government. “We are optimistic that the projects would go a long way to improving the life of both the learners and staff of the school. I urge other corporate organisations to emulate Ecobank by supporting the improvement of the standard and infrastructure of education in the country.