Onyebuchi Ezigbo in Abuja The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Adams Oshiomhole has vowed that the party will not allow the governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom, to defect to the Peoples Democratic Party. He said the national leadership of APC will do anything possible to ensure that peace returns to the Benue State chapter and that governor Ortom remains in the party. Oshiomhole who spoke to journalists at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja on Thursday after meeting with Ortom, described the governor as a man of honour that cannot efford to eat his vomit. “In Benue, we are going for a win-win solution. Governor Ortom is not going anywhere, he is a very prominent member of our party, we appreciate his leadership in Benue and we will do everything possible to help those who have issues to have those issues resolved,” he said. Oshiomhole said, “people like Ortom who have honour cannot leave PDP just three and a half years ago with his eyes open and then later there are some tensions in his master bedroom and he is thinking of returning to deceiving people, that cannot be an option. “He is a man of honour and he knows that one should look for one step if you want to take the second step to concentrate the first step, that’s the way to go.“ Speaking on the speculations that the governor might be considering defection to another party, Oshiomhole said PDP was certainly not an alternative. “Be assured that PDP can go and do whatever they do, it won’t change the mind of those who are convinced about building the future. It would not be without contestation, it will be based on the understanding that we can have contestation but we have the qualities required to resolve issues in a way that all will be happy. “For PDP that is deceiving people, they must know that only people without honour will vomit in the morning and in the afternoon they convert it to lunch. “In Benue, those would be deployed and I am sure Governor Ortom would be happy, Senator Akume would be happy, much more importantly, the great people of Benue State would be happy, not just our party members, because they want to consolidate what works and not to go back to a broken vehicle. “We are a free democratic party and when leaders have disagreements, our responsibility is to help them to find common ground and the issues in Benue are not so fundamental that we cannot resolve. “We have made it confident that we would resolve them and Senator Akume is a very respected leader of the party, a former governor, he will recognise the need for peace and we have what it takes to make peace.”