*Operation Lafiya Dole, MNJTF commanders affected Senator Iroegbu in Abuja The Nigerian Army has announced the redeployment of senior officers in Command, Staff and other appointments including the Force Commander of the Multi-National Joint Task Force (MNJTF) and Theatre Commander Operation Lafiya Dole – two military operations established to fight Boko Haram terrorists in the North East and Lake Chad region. The Director of Army Public Relations (DAPR), Brig-Gen. Texas Chukwu, in a statement Friday, said the postings affected Principal Staff Officers both at the Defence and Army Headquarters as well as General Officers Commanding (GOCs). Chukuwu disclosed that Theatre Commander, Operation Lafiya Dole, Maj-Gen. Rojas Nicholas and Force Commander MNJTF, Maj-Gen. Leo Irabor, are also affected by the posting. He noted that thr posting, which also re-organized and expanded the Operation Lafiya Dole was aimed at injecting new hands to further actualize the vision of the Chief of Army Staff COAS), Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai. He listed those affected in the redeployment to include: Maj-Gen Abba M Dikko who will take over as Theatre Commander of Operation Lafiya Dole, while Brig-Gen AO Abdullahi becomes Acting Commander Sector 2, Operation Lafiya Dole, and Brig-Gen UU Bassey is now Acting Commander Sector 3, Operation Lafiya Dole. Others are Maj-Gen CO Ude, who is now Force Commander, MNJTF Ndjamena; Maj-Gen J Sarham, now General Officer Commanding 6 Division; Maj-Gen EB Kabuk, General Officer Commanding 82 Division, Maj-Gen MS Yusuf General Officer Commanding 81 Division and Maj-Gen BA Akinroluyo, General Officer Commanding 3 Division. Among the Principal Staff Officers affected were Maj-Gen Leo Irabor now Chief of Defence Training and Operations in the Defence Headquarters while Maj-Gen LO Adeosun takes over as Chief of Training and Operations at the Army Headquarters. Others are: Maj-Gen HO Otiki, takes over as Commander Infantry Corps and Maj-Gen CU Agulanna as Chief of Accounts and Budget Nigerian Army. Also affected are: Maj-Gen JE Jakko, posted to Defence Headquarters as Chief of Defence Finance and Budget, Maj-Gen AB Abubakar, Maj-Gen A Mohammed and Maj-Gen LKJ Ogunewe, among others will be proceeding to the Nigerian Army Resource Centre on Course. Chukwu said all postings and appointments take effect from August 1.