By Ibrahim Shuaibu in Kano The Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has said that he was not aware of what transpired at the state House of Assembly until he was informed via telephone calls by top members of his party. Ganduje explained that the party member informed him that the Speaker of the Assembly, Hon. Yusuf Abdullahi Ata, had been removed by members of the house. He also described the episode as internal democracy, saying that such development is good for any progressive democracy. The governor made the assertion at the Kano State Government House Monday when the new Speaker, Hon. Kabiru Alhassan Rurum, and his principal officers paid him a courtesy visit. “I was not aware of what was going on at the state assembly. I was informed by top members of our great party that the speaker of the house has been impeached by the members of the house. “As you know, there has been, and they would be different interpretations to what has happened, but one thing is certain, that is, we in Kano believe in internal democracy. “I urge you to embrace all those who have lost their seats and ensure that there is no faction within the Assembly members. “I welcome you to the state Government House, your house, and I want to reassure you that there shall be synergy between the state government and the Assembly for the greater development of the state,” he said. According to him, “For eight years I was the deputy governor, and we have been together with virtually all of you for the past 16 years, so I’m familiar with the antics of the Assembly and issues of internal democracy. “I’m happy to hear that you are solidly behind the party in the state, national level and the president particularly at this moment of trial.” In his remarks, the new Speaker Rurum expressed their loyalty to the Ganduje administration and said that the Assembly members would continue to work with the governor for the peace and progress of the state. Rurum assures the governor that there shall be no defection by members of the house as efforts are been made to win over the six Kwankwansiyya loyalists to their fold. He further reiterated their loyalty and support for Ganduje’s second term ambition as well as that of President Muhammadu Buhari and also pledge their loyalty to the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its National Chairman Adam Oshiomhole.