One of West Africa’s largest independent fibre optic infrastructure services provider, Phase3 Telecom, has said called on local investors in ICT space and Nigerians in the diaspora to explore the huge opportunities in ICT by strategically investing to improve quality service delivery. The company asserted that it is privileged to be part of federal government efforts to cull investment and engender the active participation of the nation’s diasporas in socio-economic development particularly through the ICT sector. In a statement made available to the media by the company’s Head of Corporate Comunications, Mrs. Morayo Nwabufo, quoted the Firm’s General Manager, Mr. Korede Alaiyemola, as saying that its contribution to the 2018 Diaspora Day Conference was ignited with the conviction that diasporas can play strategic role that would enhance consistent growth of the Nigerian ICT sector towards making it to be at par with foremost global economies. The GM however acknowledged that there are very few players and operators exploring these vast opportunities, as diasporas’ investment into the ICT space would be greatly beneficial to the country. To deepen penetration in ICT space, he said: “To attain 30 percent broadband penetration by 2020; capitalise on local innovation for ICT sector improvement; provide winning solutions to cub Infrastructure deficiencies; leverage on ICT for content delivery in health, education, agriculture, oil & gas, banking and other sectors – more private investment and CAPEX is required as the government cannot do it alone.” Mr. Abdullateef Aliyu, the Company’s Head of Infrastructure, said the ICT sector is an immeasurably amazing one, and that channeling huge capital investment into the sector would not only accelerate its growth but will position it as the choice arrowhead of weaning Nigeria off its dependency on revenue generation from the oil and gas sector. “And ICT being an enabler in its own right is indeed an effective catalyst to ensure an upward trend in sustainable development opportunities in the nation’s smaller communities that are yet to be penetrated.” he said. According to him, diasporas can serve as the conduit for harnessing international sources of finance, technology and technical skills that would enhance, promote and stimulate job creation in Nigeria’s ICT sector, with an added advantage of boasting professionals with relevant skills to put in place sophisticated mechanism to prevent , detect and expose hidden fraud in its and other sectors. He urged diasporas to change the narrative by getting involved in building scalable business solutions to solve challenges in the sector.