By Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti After emerging victorious in Saturday’s governorship election, the Ekiti State governor-elect, Dr Kayode Fayemi, Wednesday received his Certificate of Return from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Fayemi, at the event, promised not to disappoint the people of the state who gave him the mandate in Saturday’s governorship election. Speaking after being presented with the Certificate of Return as the governor-elect at the INEC office in Ado Ekiti, Fayemi promised to unite Ekiti people and offer credible governance that would alleviate the poverty of the populace. The National Commissioner in charge of Oyo, Ekiti and Osun States, Prince Adedeji Soyebi, presented Fayemi with the Certificate of Return at a ceremony. The deputy governor-elect Bisi Egbeyemi also received his Certificate of Return at the event. The governor-elect commended the electoral body for doing what he
described as an “excellent job” of conducting the governorship poll. Contrary to the claim by the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Fayemi contended that the election which returned him as winner was “seamless, free, fair, credible and violence-free”. The governor-elect noted that INEC should be commended for conducting
a process of 14 steps which climaxed with the presentation of the Certificate of Return. Fayemi stressed that INEC did a good job in delivering the election in a credible and professional manner despite fears being expressed in the build-up to the poll. He also commended the security agencies for providing security back-up
which gave the electorate confidence to come out and exercise their franchise. Fayemi hailed the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Working Committee (NWC) led by the National Chairman, Mr. Adams Oshiomhole, and the state Executive Committee led by the state Chairman, Chief Olajide Awe, for standing by him throughout the electioneering period. He said: “For INEC, the work has just ended and for us, the work has just started. We have a responsibility not to disappoint our people. “Ekiti people will see the benefit of good governance by the grace of God as from October 16.” The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Prof. AbdulGaniy Raji, expressed delight that the election was held despite the tension that preceded it. Raji commended the people of Ekiti State for the maturity displayed before, during and after the election which he said was successful. According to him, Ekiti is moving higher with the conduct of the election, expressing hope that future elections to be conducted in the state will be successful. In his remarks, the INEC National Commissioner, Soyebi, noted that the
presentation of the Certificate of Return marked the end of the process of the Ekiti governorship election. Soyebi, who described Ekiti as a homogenous state, urged the people of
the state to continue to be their brothers’ keepers. He said: “Today marks the end of the election in Ekiti State on the part of the Commission which is the presentation of Certificates of Return to the governor-elect and the deputy governor-elect. “If there are issues arising from the election, there is another arm of government that will take care of that. This is another important day in the history of the state.”