The Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) has disclosed that it has paid a total of N1.7 billion to 5,382 civil service pensioners as outstanding pension arrears. The directorate disclosed this in a statement made available to the media.
According to the directorate, the pensioners were among the 7,969 civil service pensioners who were enrolled on PTAD monthly payroll in March 2018, during which they were paid a total of N71.5 million for the month. PTAD, also said in addition to this, it has adjusted monthly pension payments for 10,522 pensioners to reflect their correctly computed monthly pension based on their employment records.
“4,292 pensioners had their monthly pension payments adjusted downward, while 6,230 were adjusted upwards,” the agency said. PTAD, in the statement, assured pensioners under the defined benefit scheme who have outstanding pension arrears that payments will be made as soon as the federal government allocates and disburses funds.
The agency further assured its pensioners that President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration’s was committed to the welfare of Nigerian pensioners. NCRIB Commensurates with Ogun
The Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB) has commiserated with the government and people of Ogun State for the loss of lives and property due to recent flooding in Abeokuta, the state capital. The NCRIB President, Mr. Shola Tinubu said this in a statement.
He decried the monumental loss of lives and property caused by the flooding in the state.
According to Tinubu, the disaster calls for a rethink by the government and the people about risk management and disaster prevention before they occur. Whilst calling on governments to embrace insurance for its citizens as a way of mitigating material losses when they occur, the president admonished the citizens to individually insure against fire and other perils that cover flooding as government may not be able to adequately compensate them when a loss occurs to their lives and property. The NCRIB President, also appealed to governments to encourage their Ministries, Departments, and Agencies (MDAs) to have adequate insurance in place as a way of providing against risks and free itself from compensatory expenditure usually paid to citizens who lose their lives and property due to natural disasters like flooding. Heritage Supports Football Championship
Heritage Bank Plc has signed a partnership agreement with Feet ‘N’ Tricks International Limited on the Africa Freestyle Football championship.
The premier edition of the tournament which is scheduled to hold from September 13 to 15, 2018, in Lagos is being planned as a fusion of freestyle football and entertainment that would feature top musical and dance artistes.
The Divisional Head, Corporate Communications, Heritage Bank, Mr. Fela Ibidapo who was quoted in a statement to have said this, explained that the bank was excited to be part of the initiative. Also speaking, Chairman of Feet ‘N’ Tricks International Limited, Mr. Valentine Ozigbo, said registration for the tournament was open to male and female freestylers of African descent and will close on 15 August 2018.
According to him, the registration would be available on the company’s website for interested individuals. He said the qualifying rounds and Nigerian championship would hold between September 13th and 14th in Lagos.
He explained that after the final rounds, the best 16 male and eight female freestyle athletes on the continent would battle it out at the grand finale on 15 September 2018 when the first African male and female Freestyle Football champions would be crowned. LCCI Hosts Expo
The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) is set to host the fourth edition of the Information, Communication, Technology and Telecommunications (ICTEL) Expo.
The event is scheduled to take place between July 25 and 26, 2018, in Lagos. The Director General of LCCI, Muda Yusuf, while commenting on the expo, explained,: “The ICTEL EXPO is positioned to be a veritable platform for both operators and regulators to network, showcase and explore with technology with the view to repositioning the ICT sector of the economy.” Yusuf added that this year’s edition promises to be the best ever in the series with the theme, “Developing Efficiency and Competitiveness in the Digital Age.” “This is intended to create a platform to discuss strategies for economic diversification and business sustainability with particular focus on ICT. There would also be conferences and exhibition during the two-day event,” he added. Yusuf also emphasised that relevant agencies and departments of the Government will be available to exhibit and attend to other exhibitors and participants.