By Chineme Okafor in Abuja Nigeria and the Niger Republic on Tuesday made some progress on the planned construction of a 150,000 barrels per day (bd) processing capacity refinery to be built in a border town in Katsina between both countries. Both countries in Abuja, set up two task teams to be jointly managed by officials from them. They said they will get the private sector finance to execute the projects. The task teams which were inaugurated by President Muhammadu Buhari, alongside the President of Niger, Mahamadou Issoufou, would develop a detailed project implementation roadmap that covers bankable feasibility studies for the refinery and associated pipeline project; optimal project site and pipeline routes; security plan; as well as selected consortia of investors for the projects. Headed by the Minister of State for Petroleum Resource, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu, and his Nigerien counterpart, Foumakoye Gado, the teams would be expected to submit their report by December 2018, after which implementation of the project would commence and possibly last over two years. Speaking at the ceremony, which held at the State House, Buhari said the initiative would provide a reliable market for stranded crude oil volumes from the Niger Republic, as well as provide petroleum products for Nigeria to enable it exit importation of refined products as she planned to do in 2019. He noted that the project will be private sector driven with the full support of the governments of both countries. “Nigeria and Niger have excellent relations for several decades, as neighbours sharing a long border with common cultural and historical ties. Nigeria sees this cooperation on crude oil export from the Republic of Niger and construction of refinery facilities in Katsina State as a win-win for both nations,” said Buhari. He further stated: “In addition, it is my hope that the current frontier exploration efforts in the northern part of the country (Chad Basin, Gongola Basin, Sokoto Basin, Bida Basin and Benue trough) will also result in the  provision of additional hydrocarbon inflow to the corridors of the proposed pipeline and a potential refinery around Kaduna axis. “I am happy that several productive engagements held between the Nigerian and Nigerien authorities have resulted in the positive agreements to progress with activities on this important project.” Inaugurating the task team, the president said: “A steering committee has been set up to be chaired by the Nigerian Minister of State for Petroleum Resources and the alternate chairman is the Nigerien Minister of Petroleum, to provide strategic leadership, direction and governance oversight for the project. “Further to this, a senior level joint technical team is carefully selected based on competence to develop the implementation roadmap and strategy on both the refinery and pipeline projects. This team will be led by Nigeria’s engineer, Rabiu Suleiman, supported by the Director General Hydrocarbon of Niger Republic.”  Nigerien President, Issoufou, also agreed with Buhari and stated that the project would strengthen existing economic and political ties between both countries. He said: “The country sees the refinery as a way of uniting with the country after being separated by colonialism. The initiative remained a way growing intra-African relationship.” “The study has to be done and we know what is involved. The technical and financial components, negotiating the finance. We have mentally structured our minds to a two-year period but it depends on what we find,” Kachikwu explained. He noted that Katsina was chosen to host the refinery because it was close to Niger, adding there was a potential for an extension to Kaduna. He said the project would have “private-sector led multi-stakeholder partnership with or without equity participation from federal governments, state governments or agencies as necessary”. “Long term contracts for the supply of feedstock, adequate funding from reputable financial institutions, provision of guarantees and incentives that will safeguard investments and returns at the setup of the company, and respect for the sanctity of contracts,” he said.