By Omololu Ogunmade in Abuja The federal government at the weekend assembled what it described as 1,000-strong military force to launch fierce attacks on the bandits terrorising the villages and towns of Zamfara State.
This is coming as the Nigerian Army has said it neutralised 16 Boko Haram members and recovered a cache of weapons during its clearance operation in Mairari village in Monguno Local Government Area (LGA) of Borno State. The Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu said in a statement last night that the force comprised the Nigerian Army, Nigerian Air Force (NAF), Nigeria Police and the civil defence corps.
According to the statement, the NAF, following directives by the president, has begun the deployment of fighter aircraft to Katsina airport, the airport with the closest proximity to Zamfara State, to make for immediate and effective response to the menace of the bandits.
It added that the move had not been possible in the past because there was no fuel depot facility in Katsina State, noting however that NAF has devised a solution to the problem.
It also said the president had also authorised the engagement by NAF, of advanced satellite surveillance technology to help in accurate detection of movement and locations of the bandits.
“Following directives from the President, at the weekend, the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshall Sadiq Abubakar, was in Gusau where he met the Deputy Governor of the State. The Chief of Air Staff reiterated the president’s pledge that he would never abandon victims of attacks to their fate, reaffirming that security remains one of the cardinal pillars of his campaign promises and no leader would be happy to see his own citizens killed by criminal groups across the country,” he said. It will be recalled that since his election, the president has kept faith with his promises to re-equip and motivate the country’s military and other security services. The army and other security services are now better equipped and motivated to face the challenges of their responsibilities.
The Presidency, therefore, appeals to all Nigerians to unite and speak with one voice on security issues and urges politicians to stop exploiting national security challenges. Those praying for the President to fail in this effort can be likened to one stabbing oneself in the heart and celebrating about it,” Shehu explained. “In this regard, security should not be reduced to petty politics as doing so could only embolden the terrorists and other murderous gangs.We therefore, appeal to members of the Nigerian media to avoid unhelpful and deleterious sensationalism in the coverage of events that border on national security.The media should under no circumstances make the bandits or terrorists feel like super stars because doing so could hurt all of us. Terrorists seek to achieve maximum publicity and they do so by launching large scale attacks on soft targets and the media must resist every attempt to play into their hands unwittingly.” Meanwhile, the Nigerian Army has said it neutralised 16 Boko Haram and recovered a cache of weapons during its clearance operation in Mairari village in Monguno Local Government Area (LGA) of Borno State.
The Deputy Director, Public Relations, Theatre Command Operation Lafiya Dole, Col. Onyema Nwachukwu, disclosed this in a statement released in Maiduguri, the Borno State capital. Nwachukwu said the troops also recovered two gun trucks abandoned by the insurgents during the encounter.
“The insurgents in three vehicles, including gun trucks, had infiltrated and attacked the community, when troops at the formation were alerted by locals.
“The troops supported by the Air Task Force swiftly responded to the attack killing 16 insurgents and capturing two trucks loaded with guns abandoned by the insurgents, as they tried to escape, having been overwhelmed by the superior fire power from the troops.
“The gallant troops also recovered 163 rounds of anti-aircraft gun ammunition during the fierce encounter,” he said. During the fire fight, he said, four civilians and a soldier unfortunately, sustained varying degrees of injury and have been promptly evacuated to a military hospital, where they are currently receiving medical attention.
“The FOB has been further reinforced with additional troops, while fighting patrols are on the trail of the insurgents who fled the attack.
He said normalcy had been restored, adding that the people of Mongonu Local Government Area (LGA) are enjoined to remain vigilant and report any suspicious person(s) or activities as they go about their normal business.