By Bassey Inyang in Calabar Former National Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Hon. Emmanuel Ibeshi, has formally declared his intention to vie for the governorship position of Cross River State in 2019 on the party’s platform, saying his mission is to rescue the state from maladministration. At Transcorp Metropolitan Hotel in Calabar, at the weekend, where he formally threwhis hat into the ring to contest the governorship election in the state, Ibeshi, who presented a 16-page missions statement, declared that he was on a “Mission to Rescue Cross River State.”
Aside from the mission statement, Ibeshi also presented a 71-page manifesto on how he would run the affairs of the state, if elected governor, but emphasised that his blue-print was laced to a large extent with a fine-tuning of the templates laid by former Governor Donald Duke, and Governor Liyel Imoke when they, respectively, served the people from May 1999 to May 2015. Ibeshi’s mission statement read in part: “Yes, indeed, we can recall with joy still in our hearts, how the Obudu Cattle Ranch became a global showpiece of attraction, hosting The Mountain Race and Presidential Retreats time after time.
“We used to have at least three airlines flying to and from Calabar on regular schedules with visitors, investors and Seminar attendees. At the moment we have just one airline plying the Calabar route; a sad commentary on the ordeals of Cross River State within just three years!! “It is also still fresh in our hearts, the unforgettable strides of Senator Liyel Imoke, how he opened up the rural areas of our state, and gave our people access, how he brought hope for agricultural revolution with the Songhai Farms model. The projects established by the duo of Duke and Imoke are fresh in our minds. And, I ask: is it not painful that in just three years, we have almost lost all that these two distinguished sons of the state worked so tirelessly to build in 16 years put together? I don’t think posterity will forgive us if we let the gains of those 16 years go to ruin as it is clearly the case now. Outside of these projects, our youth have never been idle, with no hope, no motivation, and no entrepreneurial skills to hold on to,” he said. “And this is why I ask you fellow Cross Riverians to give me a chance to get our teeming youth positively active again. In their hundreds and thousands today they roam the streets without direction. Some flee to foreign lands where they are in slave labour or as sex slaves and many die in those foreign lands unsung or noticed – give me a chance to get them back and give them chance to take back their lives, to actualise their dreams. When young people go to school, or learn a trade, they do this with hope, to turn such hope into reality; all of these hopes have been dashed in the last three years. We cannot continue on this downward trend.” The governorship aspirant lamented that the current administration in the state has watched, without taking any reasonable action, as Obudu Ranch Resort, the Cable Car at the Ranch, the first in West Africa, rot away. He said “The Tinapa business and holiday resort; contiguous with the Calabar Free Trade Zone, projected to turn around N200 billion annually is dead!” as a result of inaction by the Ayade-led administration. Promising to revive Institute of Technology Management (ITM) Ugep , which he said was “technically also dead!”, and the Songhai Farms, which he labeled in similar terms; Ibeshi said he will ensure that they achieve the objectives of the pioneers that established them, if given the mandate to govern. “In simple words, I shall initiate Tinapa Phase 2, Obudu Ranch Resort Phase 2, Enterprenurship Development Phase 1”, he said. The governorship aspirant who promised to run an open government said: “A good government must be responsive; there must be consensus building as a policy framework. How can any leader lead by merely imposing his or her will on the people? My government shall be one that listens and responds to the yearnings and aspirations of our people. Therefore, this will lead to other key features, namely equity, effectiveness and efficiency. “I will promote regular town hall meetings for citizens to meet their Councillors, Local Government Chairmen, House of Assembly Members, Governor and the National Assembly Members for accountability through briefings and needs assessment. A government that does not anchor its focus on probity and accountability will surely not serve the people that elected it.” Ibeshi pledged that he will serve for only a term of four years, and appealed to members of the PDP, and the people of the state to give him the needed support to actualise his aspiration of becoming governor in 2019. “Now for the records: if you give me the opportunity, I am here to serve you for just one term of four years, completing the two terms of Northern Cross River Senatorial District under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP); a precedence already benefited by South and Central Senatorial Districts, respectively, in keeping with the zoning arrangement designed by our leaders as boldly printed in my 71-page Manifesto hereby presented.”