• CBN Pumps $340m, CNY69m into Forex Market By Chika Amanze-Nwachuku and Obinna Chima with agency report Nigeria’s economy is expected to grow more slowly this year as investors are adopting a wait and see approach on Nigeria ahead of next year’s general elections, a Reuters poll showed on Friday. The latest projection came as the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) yesterday intervened in the foreign exchange (forex) market with the sum $340, 507, 376.51  through retail Secondary Market Intervention Sales (SMIS) in the interbank market. Also, following last week’s take-off of its intervention in the sale of forex in Chinese Yuan (CNY), the banking sector regulator sold CNY 69,858,087.15 in the spot and short tenored forwards. The figures made available by the central bank, showed that the US denominated interventions were only for concerns in the agricultural and raw materials sectors. According to the acting Director, Corporate Communications at the CBN, Isaac Okorafor, the sales in the Chinese Yuan were through a combination of spot and 15-day tenors. He said the exercise, in line with its guidelines, were for the payment of Renminbi denominated Letters of Credit for agriculture as well as raw materials and machinery. Okorafor, also explained that the requests attended to were bids received from authorized dealers, adding that the availability of Renminbi was sure to ease pressure on the Nigerian foreign exchange market. He attributed the relative stability in the foreign exchange market hugely to the continued intervention of the CBN as well as the sustained increase in crude oil prices in the international market. The CBN spokesman further stated that the apex regulator would remain committed to ensuring that all the sectors continue to enjoy access to the foreign exchange required for the business concerns, whether in United States dollars or Chinese yuan. The CBN had last week announced the commencement of its intervention in the sale of foreign exchange in Chinese Yuan (CNY), marking the concrete commencement of the Bilateral Currency Swap Agreement (BCSA) signed with the People’s Bank of China (PBoC) on April 27, 2018. Announcing the commencement of the sale of the Chinese currency, the CBN had explained that there would be no pre-determined spread on the sale of FX Forwards by authorised dealers to end-users under the Special SMIS-Retail, adding that authorised dealers would be allowed to earn 50 kobo on the customers’ bids. Meanwhile, $1 exchanged for N360 at the Bureau de Change (BDC) segment of the foreign exchange market, while CNY 1 exchanged for N53.35. The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the CBN last week retained the benchmark monetary policy rate and other monetary policy instruments. The committee also expressed concern that the federal government was not saving for the rainy day, considering the increasing allocations from the Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC) in recent months. It also expressed worry about the liquidity impact of the 2018 expansionary fiscal budget and increasing FAAC distributions due to rising prices of crude oil as well as the 2019 elections- related activities. In the Reuters poll taken in the past week, analysts and economists’ forecasts showed a median of 2.1 percent growth for Nigeria, accelerating to 3.0 percent next year. The figure was a significant downgrade from the previous poll taken three months ago by the newswire, which showed Africa’s largest economy expanding 2.6 percent this year after a lacklustre 0.8 percent in 2017. “Upcoming elections and the associated high-wire politics already underway would instigate caution on the part of economic stakeholders,” Reuters quoted chief economist at Macroafricaintel in Lagos, Rafiq Raji to have said.  Raji expects the economy to slow in the next few quarters. “Business and investment decisions are thus likely to be postponed till after the 2019 elections,” Raji added. In its World Economic Outlook (WEO) for April, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) had projected that Nigeria, Africa’s most-populous nation and top crude producer, will grow by 2.1 per cent this year, matching its estimate released in January. The Washington-based Fund however said the country’s growth rate will slip back to 1.9 per cent by 2019, apparently as a result of the impact of the forthcoming general elections. It however increased its forecast for expansion in sub-Saharan Africa to 3.4 per cent this year and 3.7 per cent the next “as the challenging outlook in commodity exporters gradually improves. The Fund noted a fortnight ago that in spite of the relief higher oil prices and short-term portfolio inflows have provided to Nigeria, the  economy remains vulnerable to oil price and production shocks. It urged the federal government to take urgent action on a coherent set of policies to reduce vulnerabilities and increase growth over the medium term remains. While also noting that growth would pick up to about 2 percent in 2018, weighed down by lower than expected oil production and relatively weak agriculture growth, the Fund observed that “higher oil prices and portfolio flows, have helped strengthen fiscal and external buffers, the outlook for 2018 remains challenging, as private sector lending remains low while foreign exchange inflows are mostly short-term.” It recommended specific and sustainable measures to increase the currently low tax revenue—including through avoiding new tax exemptions — and ensuring budget targets are adhered to even in an election year. According to the IMF, this process should be supported by keeping monetary policy tight through appropriate monetary policy tools that will help contain inflationary pressures and support a move towards a uniform market-determined exchange rate.