By Paul Obi in Abuja The federal government Monday in Abuja charged members of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) to be considerate in the discharge of their services, as quality healthcare requires the cooperation of everyone. The Minister of State for Health, Dr Osagie Enahire, gave the charge to the new executive members of NMA to show compassion while managing emergency and accident cases in hospitals by ensuring that prompt and adequate attention are given to victims as required. Enahire explained that human life is sacred, adding that the medical profession is a divine calling, as such, health professionals, particularly medical doctors needed to have a change of attitude towards their patients while discharging their duties. He said: “As keepers of a profession that has to do with human existence, you need compassion, dedication, integrity and selflessness. “As team leaders, you must remember to carry others along because quality health care delivery requires the cooperation of everyone involved, success requires team work,” the minister stated. He further tasked the new executive members to ensure better working relationship with other associations within the sector. According to him, “This would stem the tide of industrial actions in the sector which would consequently attract the implementation of the no- work-no-pay sanction by the government.” He assured the group that the Federal Ministry of Health would continue to partner with the Association and other professional bodies within the sector towards achieving a strike-free and peaceful atmosphere in the sector for the betterment of Nigerians. Speaking, the NMA President, Dr Francis Faduyile, maintained that there was need to ensure the release of the white paper report by the Alhaji Yayale Ahmed-led Presidential Committee on experts on Inter-Professional Relationship in the Public Health Sector, adding that it would play a vital role towards achieving peace in the health sector. He pledged that the NMA under his watch was poised to partner with government and other relevant stakeholders in the heath sector towards the delivery of quality health care to Nigerians.