Comedian and master of ceremony, Damola Adegboye tells the story of how he started his career by collecting N500 per show to collecting up to a N1 million today. He defines his style of comedy as ethical, which undoubtedly, makes him one of the most sought-after master of ceremonies. He talks to Tosin Clegg, about starting out his career, his successes and challenges, mentors, influence and more How it all began As an undergraduate at the Lagos State University (LASU), all I had back then was my Facebook page to share information and stories. A friend later introduced me to blogging and told me where to sign up and from then, blogging took off. The rest is history. My show in Ife was my big break Although it wasn’t financially rewarding, I was so proud of myself and thankful to God for that kind of event. It was an event I did at the amphitheatre of Obafemi Awolowo University and we had about three thousand students in attendance. I was able to express myself and do my comedy, which really was a big one for me. Saco is my mentor I met him at Ife. That day, I was waiting for my pay which was a whopping sum of N3000 and they told me to wait and while I was there he was passing by,  then we had a little chat and that was where it started. Today, I’m so proud to say anywhere in the world that I’m privileged to have him as my mentor. I did a lot of free shows At some point, I was paid N500, N1000, N1200, N1500, N3000 and all of that. While I was at the university, the highest I was paid was N15,000 but after school, I got some raise here and there. Today, I thank God there are a lot of positive changes. Good content is a major challenge Good content comes with the job, but regardless of that, you have to protect your content and personal discipline is also key. It’s an individual challenge where you know that because you are big doesn’t mean you can’t do some smaller jobs. Basically, those are the challenges but largely we are doing well. I like my name and how it sounds That’s why I stuck to using my name instead of crafting a stage name and, in fact, on my Instagram my handle is Damola. I have always been a fan of bearing my first name instead of nickname right from time. All the nicknames I had were imposed on me and they fell off at a point but my name still remained. Even when I have awards I want to always have my real name engraved on it. I lecture in a university also I lecture at Osun State University where I graduated with First Class Honours in Political Science and by virtue of that, I was retained in that same school. I have been teaching there for about three years now. And it’s been a beautiful experience so far being a researcher and a university lecturer. The academic work has a flexible structure, as you are not working 24 hours or seven days a week. There is a timetable and most of my courses don’t fall on days I have events. So, I always ensure my students are sufficiently taught and that the administrative work is done also. I have performed at several shows Such as Ali Baba January 1st concert and I featured in it a few times; Ay Live; Lagos at 50; Lagos Laughs; Stand Up Nigeria; and many others. As a master of ceremony, I have done pieces of stuff for Lagos State Government a few times, Airtel, MTN and a lot of corporate brands and multinationals. I have also travelled outside of Nigeria a few times and I thank God for all of that. Social media has helped me And that’s in terms of pushing some of my contents out there, which went viral at some point. It’s been helping me so far and is still helping as a lot of people have gotten across to me through it. I wouldn’t say it’s my major source of strength as I would rather use every opportunity that presents itself to put myself out there. My successes so far I would say the capacity to work on people’s mind, creating happiness is a great achievement as I see people rushing to meet me after events. The comments they share with me, I would say, mean a lot to me and these are the things I call achievement, aside from the access and other things that come with the job. I run an initiative It’s not so much like an NGO yet, but it’s where I help students effectively combine their talents with their education. And I’m a product of that, as I combine my academics and talent to still have a First Class. I try to inculcate that in many people, as I organise programmes and talk shows to motivate people on how they can improve their talents and combine that with their academics to do a lot better. And I do a little of public speaking to teach people how to commercialise their talents. I am an extremely playful person I’m also an extrovert and everywhere I go, I try to make people happy as much as I can. I could be very quiet too if I want but largely I don’t like too much seriousness. My life is loosened and not too rigid although I don’t club, party but I’m very playful. Linda Ejiofor was my celebrity crush Nothing really drew me to her per say, but maybe because she is fair skinned and that could be part of it. Basically, sometime ago, I watched one of her movies and I was like she has a very fine smile which drew me to her. But right now I’m not searching at all, and I don’t like putting my relationship in the public light. My ideal woman is someone that is calm, smart upstairs and has the fear of God. I’m attracted to wisdom and someone that has a good heart towards people. I would like to perform at a United Nations function As that’s like the largest gathering of Presidents in the world and performing before them all is a big deal to me. My mentors and role models Gbenga Adeyinka is one and I love him for his choice of words and lexical stamina which is amazing. Alibaba is another person; so also is Bovi for his content. He doesn’t shout or run up and down but stands in a spot and deliver effectively. All comedians are inspirations to me.