Ugo Aliogo The Chief Executive Officer, STL Trustees, Funmi Ekundayo, has reaffirmed the company’s commitment drive innovation to ensure that it meets clients’ needs in the area of trust transaction. According to her, “the dynamics of a trust transaction of today might be different from the same type of transaction tomorrow.” Ekundayo, who stated that this in a statement made available to THISDAY by the company, noted that trust transactions involve a lot of documented provisions that needs to be implemented within stipulated timelines and on an ongoing basis. She also stated that the firm realised that the training and retraining of its staff was imperative for the company to remain outstanding, adding that its major focus remains to deliver, not only quality service, but quality service with the desired speed to excite our clients. Ekundayo further stated that the company was actively involved in the debut Sukuk issue in Nigeria; debut FGN Sukuk issue in Nigeria, debut local contractors refinance bond in Nigeria, debut Infrastructure and ethical funds in Nigeria; and other project finance debt issues for sub-sovereign and corporate bodies in the country. She explained that as part of the company’s commitment to assist clients navigate the complexities of increasing economic uncertainty, the company would be offering a number of customised retail products designed to meet a variety of investment goals and risk profiles. These include Controlling You Retirement Voluntarily (STL CRV), STL Child Education Trust (STL CET) and STL Target. The STL Trustees CEO stated that with strong footprint in bond trusteeship, the company was also highly rated in the offering of superior trusteeship services to corporate entities (As Security and Notes Trustees), trusts of real estate transactions as well as private trust services to high networth individuals (HNIs) and individuals falling within different income brackets. She added that the company’s financial position was in excess of N35 billion and sits on business size of over N1 trillion. According to Ekundayo, “The STL Trustees was a delegate trustee to the first Sukuk Issuance in Nigeria, the State of Osun Sukuk Al-Ijara which was issued by the government of the State of Osun to finance the construction of modern elementary, middle and High schools in the State. “STL was also a delegate trustee to the first sovereign Sukuk to be issued in the country; the N100billion FGN Road Sukuk 1 Plc issued by the federal government to fund the construction and rehabilitation of some roads across the six geo-political zones in the country. “The company also currently acts as trustees to 23 sub-sovereign bonds in the country and sovereign-backed debt issues, corporate bond issues as well as several mutual funds and ethical funds. “STL CRV is a savings product which has been designed for income earners who are mindful of preparing ahead for post-retirement from paid employment, in addition to the mandatory pension contributions under the law as well as self-employed individuals who want to secure their future, when they would be less active and earn lower income.”