The Cowbell Football Academy run by Godwin Dudu-Orumen will take off on Monday, July 23 for the 2018 Summer season. The specialist football programme for youngsters between ages 4 and 18 is billed to kick off with superb funfair at the Mainbowl of the National Stadium in Lagos. Dudu-Orumen, known for his versatility in football management over the decades said on Thursday that everything needed to make this year’s event successful has been done. He said, “This our little way of helping to properly develop the game of football in Nigeria. We always take these young ones beyond the pitch as they’re also given life lessons. “We have experts lined up to take them in various fields of this beautiful game. For instance, Dr Amao will speak on sports medicine. And there are other motivational speakers on sports law and the media. “The idea is to prepare them in every way so that they understand to have real expectations and not mere hearsay far beyond reality. At the end of it all we are producing players who understand the road they are taking mentally and physically. “ Monday’s opening ceremony has the First Vice President of the Nigeria Football Federation, Seyi Akinwunmi, as the Chairman while the Executive Chairman of the Lagos State Sports Commission, Dr. Kweku Tandoh is the Special Guest of Honour. There are other notable members of the Nigeria sports family expected to attend. Former Super Eagles stars Mutiu Adepoju, Yisa Sofoluwe, Franklin Howard and Gbenga Okunowo are all part of the huge event. The opening ceremony will start at 10am at the Main bowl of the National Stadium (opposite the Medical Centre). The trainee players who work with about 23 certified coaches will be involved in different activities between Monday and August 11 when the 2018 event rounds off. There are goalkeeping programmes, group and individual events. The Cowbell Football Academy is run in different centres across the county. The National Stadium hosts the senior players while the juniors train at Jalupon Estate also in Surulere, Lagos. There are also the Lekki Country Estate, Badagry, Benin City amongst others.