* Wants Malami punished over alleged professional misconduct By Alex Enumah in Abuja The family of the detained former National Security Adviser (NSA), Colonel Sambo Dasuki (rtd), has petitioned the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) over alleged professional misconduct of the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN). The family, in the petition, accused Malami of exhibiting unprofessional conduct likely to cause anarchy in the country through his promotion of disobedience to the lawful order of court by the federal government. In the petition dated July 23, 2018 and received by the NBA the same day, Malami was alleged to have made an unprofessional statement to denigrate the court, violate the constitution and encourage the continued breach of the fundamental human rights of Dasuki who has been in detention since December 29, 2015. They cited the latest judgment of Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu of the Federal High Court which on July 2, 2018 admitted Dasuki to bail upon a discovery that his detention was a breach of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and that of the fundamental right of the ex-NSA. They claimed that upon meeting the bail condition, the warrant of release of Dasuki on bail signed by the court was served on the Director General of the Department of State Services (DSS) and the AGF for their compliance with the order of the court. The family, however, informed the NBA in the petition that rather than complying with the order of the court, the AGF as the Chief Law Officer of the Federation made unprofessional remarks that the order of the court as relates to Dasuki would not be obeyed by the federal government. The family wondered whether a lawyer let alone a Senior Advocate of Nigeria ought to have engaged in such unprofessional and unguided utterances capable of causing anarchy for the nation. The NBA was prayed to invoke the code of ethics on Malami, investigate him and impose deserved disciplinary sanctions on him in order to safeguard the rule of law for the country. The family lamented that Malami’s statement was prejudiced, unwarranted and unbecoming of a legal practitioner, adding that imposing sanctions on Malami will make other Nigerians to respect the rule of law. The family also asked the NBA to intervene in the ordeal of Dasuki, speak out and take decisions and actions that will compel the federal government to respect the rule of law and obey the order of the court that admitted him to lawful bail. Members of the family who signed the petition include; Hajia Bintu Sambo Dasuki (wife);) his son, Abubakar Atiku Dasuki and his nephew, Senator Umar Dahiru. A copy of the petition was however sent to the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Legal Practitioners Privileges Committee (LPPC), and Legal Practitioners Disciplinary Committee (LPDC) for necessary action.