By Onyebuchi Ezigbo in Abuja and Oko George in Makurdi The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Adams Oshiomhole, has accused Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State of fueling the killings in his state. Addressing a press conference yesterday evening at APC national secretariat in Abuja, Oshiomhole also alleged that the governor was found to be fraternising with the arrested criminals that murdered two priests of the Roman Catholic Church. But in a swift response, Ortom described the allegations as laughable and callous. The APC National Chairman’s allegations, yesterday, are coming barely three days after Ortom announced his exit from the APC to return to the PDP on Wednesday. Oshiomhole claimed that investigations showed that criminals of the Christian faith killed the Catholic priests in Benue State and not the Fulani herdsmen as was alleged. Oshiomhole also alleged that the leadership of the party in Benue State gave Ortom red card because the governor allegedly squandered over N20 billion without any development project to show for it. “It is bad enough that any Nigeria was killed but it is worst when anyone tries to twist facts over the incident. “Governor Ortom played up the ethnic dimension of criminality whereas in truth, some of those who have been killed were killed not by Muslims, they were killed by Christians of Benue state origin, including those he has employed. “So, his attempt to explain away criminality by playing up ethnic sentiments is not helpful to what he should do as governor to manage the situation better,” he said. The former Edo state governor also said that Ortom had reduced governance to Nollywood. Speaking on his attempt to resolve the dispute in Benue State APC, Oshiomhole, who described Ortom as a comedian, said the peace efforts flopped because of the governor’s antics. “So, I couldn’t assure governor Ortom that we will overrule the position of our members and leaders in Benue State that come 2019 we will give him ticket. I wanted to simply cross check with him in the allegations made against him and he was to come by Wednesday that is why he organised that drama. “And that tells you the quality of reasoning, with all due respect to Governor Ortom, how can you reduce governance to Nollywood, saying he wanted to go to Abuja to meet with the National Working Committee but my people have blocked the road that I will not go. In his response, Ortom through his Chief Press Secretary, Terver Akase, said the statement by Adams Oshomole was not only laughable, but callous. He added that the way Oshomole was speaking “shows clearly a man that is confused and on a hatchet mission not worthy of a National Chairman of a party.” 