Ayobami Adekunle, Ebuka Anumba and Ayobami Jegede have been selected as the top three winners of the Rexona Street to Stamford competition to represent Nigeria and join Africa XI to train at Stamford Bridge, United Kingdom in September 2018. Leading deodorant and anti-perspiration brand, Rexona, started the ‘Street to Stamford’ competition in May 2018 with the participation of young football enthusiasts across the country. Following the digital draws which was witnessed by representatives from the Consumer protection Council, National Lottery Board and Lagos State Lottery Board, the invitation of 100 players to the ‘Rexona Street to Stamford’ Africa XI camp at the National Stadium Surulere Lagos. The players showcased their talents and competed for spots in the final top three. Speaking to the media on the competition, Head Local Coach, Rexona XI Street to Stamford Academy, Kennedy Boboye said: “I was impressed by the talents on display at the academy and it was a pleasure working with such determined group of young players.” The coach who led Plateau United to win the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) last season added that the few days he spent training the players and the selection process leading to pruning down to the final three was a difficult one. “It shows the abundant talent available in the country.” Boboye urged the players to use the opportunity afforded them to grow and follow their dreams. Head International Coach, Chelsea FC Rexona Academy, Laurence Griffin, similarly shared same sentiments as Boboye and stressed that despite being his first experience in Africa, he was impressed by the passionate football tradition of Nigerians and the level of commitment by players in the Rexona Academy. He further stated that the opportunity afforded the players by Rexona and Chelsea “is once in a lifetime. It is our hope that with the experience and exposure to training facilities at Stamford, would help develop and shape these players to be leaders who can also pass on such experience to their local communities in improving them in future.” Laurence added that the selection of the final three was a difficult decision due to the enormous talents in the academy but with the support of the local coaches was able to pick those to represent Nigeria at Stamford Bridge. Category Manager, Skin Care and Deodorants, Unilever Nigeria, Toun Adegbite, congratulated all the players for their commitment and level of determination throughout the trials in the academy. Adegbite said the campaign was aimed at helping young talents in football build their confidence and also achieve their dreams of training at the highest level. The Unilever Nigeria executive further stated that the ‘Rexona Street to Stamford’ platform is “aimed at inspiring youths across the country to dream, work hard, and be prepared at all times as opportunity always meets those who are ready.” Rexona Ambassador and former Super Eagles Captain, Austin Jay Jay Okocha, thanked Rexona for such platform created for young vibrant footballers to aspire for greatness and urged other corporate organisations to take initiative in ensuring the growth of football talents within the country. He also advised the players to be resilient and focused on the game as they have the spotlight on them from prospective scouts who aim to make them better. 