Laleye Dipo in Minna The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Niger State may soon be embroiled in crisis following its decision on the zoning of the governorship post ahead of the 2019 general election. The party, at its expanded caucus meeting held at the party’s secretariat on Thursday, agreed that its governorship ticket will be given to a member of the party in the Niger North senatorial zone popularly called zone C. The meeting was presided over by the state chairman of the party, Alhaji Tanko Beji. The zoning arrangement was introduced in 1998 primarily to give all parts of the state the spirit of belonging. Late Alhaji Abdulkhadir Kure was the first beneficiary of the zoning formula followed by Dr Mu’azu Babangida Aliyu. Before his demise, late Governor Kure had also backed the governorship ticket being taken to Zone C but said it was on the condition that the PDP governor to be elected from there would serve only one term. Other political parties had since adopted the same arrangement in picking their governorship standard-bearers in the state. However, the decision did not go down well with some major stakeholders who were of the opinion that the policy should be jettisoned in view of the “present political situation in the state”. The “situation”, according to a source, is because the incumbent governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, is from the zone and it might be very difficult for any other candidate to “outshine him” there in 2019 primarily because of his family background and his relationship with the traditional rulers in the Kontagora emirate. It was learnt that one of those allegedly opposed to the decision was the former state governor, Dr. Aliyu, who a source said was not at the meeting. It was learnt from close associates of the former governor that he was unhappy that such a critical decision was taken in his absence being the leader of the party in the state. The source said Aliyu told his aides and close confidants that as a member of the Board of Trustees (BoT) of the party, he should be involved in all the decision making in the party. According to the source, Aliyu may be routing for a candidate from Niger south (zone) because of the dissatisfaction of the people of the zone with the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the possibility of the PDP garnering massive votes from the senatorial zone. The invitation of ex-Governor Aliyu by former military president, Gen. Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida, to his residence last week after the former Nigerian leader had received another former President, Dr Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, in company with a gubernatorial aspirant Alhaji Hanafi Muazu Sudan, may not be unconnected with the zoning arrangement and plan to prop up the aspirant. One of the aspirants from the zone, Aminu Mohammed Baka, also distanced himself from the decision, insisting that he would go ahead with his mobilisation of PDP members until after the primaries. Baka, who said he was confident of winning the ticket and the governorship of the state come 2019, however, disclosed that all the aspirants had agreed to work together for the common good of “our great party and the people of Niger state”. Beji, at the meeting therefore, told the aspirants from other zones to bury their interest because the party would not support them. The meeting was attended among others by the former Deputy Governor, Dr. Shem Nuhu Zagbayi; former minister, Alhaji Abubakar Tanko; a member of BoT and former military governor of Kano State, Col Aminu Isah Kotangora (rtd); a former Deputy Majority Leader, House of Representatives, Alhaji Baba Shehu Agaie; and a former member, House of Representatives, Alhaji Mukthar Mohammed Suleja.