 There have been several allegations against Nigerian coaches collecting bribes but none had really been substantiated. However, when Super Eagles assistant coach, Salisu Yusuf, was caught on camera receiving a bribe, there was no hiding place for him When Salisu Yusuf was appointed on a temporary basis to coach the Super Eagles against Mali and Luxemburg, which he recorded victories in both games and the Nigeria Football Federation, President, Amaju Pinnick, expressed his satisfaction in both matches, Yusuf started nursing the idea of having the job on a permanent basis. “I can take responsibility at this level. I have been working as a coach for the past 15 years. I will work a lot harder because the responsibility is higher. It will not change my philosophy as a coach. I will not be surprised if I’m given the job because I have assisted three coaches – Stephen Keshi, Sunday Oliseh and Samson Siasia. I know the job and I can do the job. “I will use active players, playing for their clubs regularly, conditioning and match fitness will come from their club sides. We will only discussed tactics and strategy for the four days we are together before a game. The quality of the player cannot be compromised and if he is active, he can take responsibility. If you are playing for your club, it will be easier for you to play for the national team,” an ambitious Yusuf said. However, it was not to be as a German-born coach, Gernot Rohr was appointed as the national team coach, while Yusuf served as an assistant and also in charge of the home-based Eagles, which he led to winning a silver medal at the 5th African Nations Championship in Morocco in February. At the recently concluded World Cup in Russia, Yusuf was a conspicuous figure on the bench of the Super Eagles in Nigeria’s three group matches. But all the ambition and whatever he might have built might just go into the wind with the recent happening to the former Kano Pillars coach- he was caught on camera receiving a bribe. In a sting operation masterminded by Ghanaian investigative journalist, Anas Aremeyaw Anas, and aired on the BBC, Yusuf was caught on camera taking cash from men posing as football agents. In that secretly filmed video, Yusuf was showed receiving money which the sting operators said was to ensure two players are named in the squad for the 2018 African Nations Championship held in Morocco where Nigeria finished as runners-up. The video showed Yusuf, who is paid N3 million monthly by the Nigeria Football Federation, taking $1,000 from the undercover reporters, who eluded to other financial incentives after the coach had taken the money. “So if anything goes through and these players are able to get their contracts, you will get 15 per cent of that contract,” one of the undercover reporters told Yusuf and he replied; “they will be in CHAN.” According to the FIFA code of ethics, officials should not engage in any activity that gives rise to suspicion or collect any cash gifts. The two players were eventually selected for the African Nations Championship but no further money was requested or given to Yusuf and there’s no further suggestion that the money he took influenced the selection of the players. In the video, Yusuf said: “You know in football it is supposed to be by your consistency and form.” But in a swift reaction to the video on Tuesday, Yusuf denied any wrongdoing and said, he neither promised nor committed to selecting players for games, adding that he never asked the undercover journalists for money but it was offered to him and the amount was $750, not the $1,000 Anas claims. Yusuf also stated that he believes the money falls within the gifts the FIFA codes allow for, viewing it as of trivial and symbolic value and not as an inducement to select the two players represented by the two agents. Meanwhile, the Disciplinary Committee of the NFF has given their recommendations on the fate of the coach Yusuf. The NFF Disciplinary Committee has however asked the board to sack him. A check at the secretariat of the football house in Abuja revealed that Yusuf will be relieved of his role as coach of the Super Eagles and U23s, but it won’t be immediate as he would be given the chance to defend himself by the board of the NFF. NFF President, Pinnick and his vice, Shehu Dikko were said to be highly disappointed and bitter over the conduct of the Kano-born coach, and that has led to suggestions that he won’t survive the axe from the board. In his defense forwarded to the BBC, Yusuf confirmed meeting with two persons in September 2017 at the said Best Western Plus Atlantic Hotel, Ghana where he had lodged, who introduced themselves as football agents to two players whose names he said he could not remember. “These individuals spoke to me, among other football-related matters, on the possibility of their principals playing in the African Nations Championship in Nigerian colours . I can remember giving them my honest answer to the end that if the said players were found suitable in the selection process, they would indeed be selected. My response was neither a promise nor a commitment, knowing that I was not the sole person saddled with selecting players for any particular game,” Yusuf said. How well Yusuf survives this bribery scandal remains to be seen.