It is almost a norm that each time the country returns from the World Cup, the head of the footballing body must go unceremoniously. When the Super Eagles failed to qualify for the 2006 Mundial in Germany, the then NFA Chairman, Ibrahim Galadima was forced out of office. Sani Lulu and Aminu Maigari both at the helms of Nigeria’s football affairs suffered the same fate on returning from the 2010 and 2014 World Cup respectively. But all may change as present NFF President Amaju Pinnick is proving to have more than nine lives. Kunle Adewale reports While the 2018 World Cup was still ongoing and the President of Nigeria Football Federation, Amaju Pinnick, was still in far away Russia attending to FIFA duties, his longtime adversary, Chris Giwa, struck. Giwa arrived at the Secretariat of Nigeria Football Federation popularly known as ‘Glass House’ with some security agents to assume office as substantive president of the federation, saying his assumption was in line with the ruling of the Supreme Court on June 5. He said that the court had nullified the parallel election held in Warri by Pinnick, and upheld him as the chairman. “I am here to claim my mandate as the substantive chairman elected on August 26, 2014. We waited for the other board to finish the preparations for World Cup so that we can assume office,” Giwa said. Giwa had obtained a Jos court order to take over the running of affairs at the NFF in compliance with a Supreme Court order. The apex court had directed all parties involved in the matter to return to the lower courts for another look at the case against NFF’s September 30, 2014 elections in Warri. He promised to embark on reconciliation of all aggrieved members for the success of the federation, just as he explained that Nigeria’s sovereignty could not be threatened by any foreign interest, saying NFF operated in tandem with the constitution. Some board members who followed Giwa were: Chairman, Senate Committee on Sports, Senator Obinna Ogba; board member representing North-west, Shehu Adamu; Sanni Ferma for North-east; board member representing South-south, Johnson Effiong; Sunday Ajayi for South-west and Yaya Adams for North-central. However, in a swift reaction, FIFA President, Gianni Infantino, said the world football ruling body recognised only Pinnick as NFF President, and would not accept any outside interference in NFF’s affairs. Infantino, while responding to questions at a press conference in Moscow, said Pinnick was duly elected and in accordance with FIFA rules. “The situation is very clear. Pinnick was duly elected some years ago, and FIFA is aware of all this. It is also clear to all within the family that there can be no interference in the running of the national federations by any party, especially those outside the football family. So, Pinnick is the President of NFF for FIFA, because he is the one elected,’’ he said. The FIFA president added that Nigeria as a member-association of FIFA, would then be at the risk of facing the world body’s sanctions if the situation continued as it is now. Interestingly, on Monday, the Pinnick faction of NFF was restored to office, following a directive from the federal government. The General Secretary of NFF, Muhammed Sanusi, said, “I am back to my office to assume my legal responsibilities with a clearance from the government. I can assure you that the president will also resume his duties soon.” Pinnick has indeed expressed gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari for intervening to restore the leadership and bring sanity back to Nigeria football. The FIFA recognised Pinnick-led board had been kept out of office but following the orders of the President, they were led back on Monday. Speaking immediately after the Secretary-General, Sanusi, called to inform about the latest development, Pinnick, who just came back from Morocco, said he has always trusted in the understanding and commitment of the President to act in the best interest of the nation. “We must give all the credit to our President, Muhammadu Buhari, for acting to restore the leadership of the federation and saving the nation the embarrassment,” Pinnick said. “Even as the situation persisted, I was very positive about his patriotic commitment to the best interest of the nation and his clarity of judgment to bring order to bear. It is said that the sheep cannot be suffering the pangs of birth tied to the stake while elders are around. He has demonstrated this fatherliness in so many ways across various sectors and now football is the latest beneficiary. We thank God for his life and for giving him to us. “By his intervention, the nation has been saved the embarrassment, the world football community has been reassured of the high sense of responsibility of the government of Nigeria as a member of the international community and hope is brought back to thousands of Nigerian youths engaged in football as the various national teams can proceed on their various programmes without apprehension, the various leagues which were stopped under the circumstance can now get back to action while the confidence of the various sponsors, partners and investors in Nigeria football has been restored,” he noted. Pinnick, however, insisted that there were no victors nor vanquished in the resolution of the crisis. “Football is about people, about unity. The game belongs to the fans and the pride belongs to the nation. The people are deprived when football is inhibited but with the action of the President, Nigerians can now enjoy what they love most.” The Minister of Youth and Sports, Solomon Dalung, however, maintained that President Buhari would not disregard court rulings as it concerns the NFF leadership tussle after the Department of State Security (DSS) re-instated the Pinnick-led board back to the NFF office in Abuja on Monday. Dalung described the action of the DSS as “an invasion” by security operatives of the Nigeria Football Federation offices. In a statement signed by Dalung, he insisted that nothing has changed. “What happened in the NFF is security excesses, but it will be sorted out. As far as I am concerned, nothing has changed. There is no development after the Supreme Court ruling of April 27, 2018, and the Federal High Court Order of 5th June 2018 because the court has not vacated the order,” Dalung said. “Those who are presently trying to instigate confusion, using the name of the President must be aware that the President cannot go against the rule of law. The order issued by the court has not been vacated and the President cannot vacate a court order because there are clear-cut processes of doing that. “We want to assure Nigerians that government is sorting out the grey areas but nobody should drag the name of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria into this. The President is an advocate of the rule of law and he cannot be associated with the security excesses of a breach of the rule of law. “The federal government is urging members of the public to remain calm as it is doing its best to resolve the crises in the Nigeria Football Federation. The Ministry of Youth and Sports Development has already initiated a process of trying to bring the stakeholders together, to work out a roadmap out of this quagmire,” the minister said. Dalung had earlier ordered that the NFF should comply with the Supreme Court judgment that overturned the September 30, 2014 election of Pinnick. The minister said the directive followed a written notification by the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice requesting the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports to ensure compliance. With what panned out in Abuja on Monday leading to Pinnick taking back his office, the former Delta State boss seems to have to have proven to be the proverbial cat with nine lives as his office now look safe, at least until the next election. 