CAA ASABA 2018 The Delta State Acting Governor, Kingsley Otuaro has stated that the state government is ready to host the continent at the 21st African Senior Athletics Championship tagged “Asaba 2018” scheduled for August 1st – 5th . Otuaro who disclosed this Wednesday while declaring open the “African Tour/Trial”, and test run of facilities at the Stephen Keshi Stadium, venue of the championship, said all the necessary facilities needed for the championship were in place for a successful event. He said athletes from 45 African countries including Nigeria will be in Asaba for the championship, stressing that “today marks the test running of the facilities in preparation of the African Senior Athletics Championship and as you can see we are very set for the country, we are set for Africa. “For everyone, both athletes and guests, as a state government, our simple message is that Delta state is set to give them a beautiful hosting; we are an accommodating people, everything that is needed to make this championship a success is set and we are welcoming them all”, he stated. The acting Governor said adequate security and other logistics had been provided to ensure a hitch free championship, adding that the test run of facilities was organised to prove to the world that the state was 100% ready to host the continent. Otuaro called on Deltans and lovers of sports to come out en-mass to give support to the athletes and make the event a memorable one, adding that the event would continue to be acknowledged in the annals of history as the most successful in the series of the championship. While reiterating the hospitable nature of deltans, He enjoined the visitors to also take advantage of the tourism potentials of the state The test run of facilities for the 21st African Senior Athletics Championship featured various track and field events by students of selected secondary schools and professional athletes from within and outside the country. In a related development, in the tour event used as a test run for upcoming Championships, Divine Oduduru won the 100m with a time of 10.44s while the duo of Ogho-Oghene Egwero (10.46) and Enoch Adegoke (10.52) settled for second and third respectively. After her heroics at the Commonwealth Games, Joy Udo Gabriel continued her fine run; winning the winning the women’s 100m event ahead of Matthew Ubong and Blessing Ogundinmu. In the men’s 400m, old war horse Isa Salihu was the top man with a time of 46.70s while the duo of Orukpe Erayoikan and Achimaya Daniel finished second and third respectively. In women’s one lap race, Patience Okon was the top athlete wining with a time of 51.49s Yussuf Alli, the Technical Director for CAA Asaba 2018 said he was delighted with the test event though he admitted that one or two areas will be improved upon. “I can rate the Africa tour test event at 80%, we will correct the few mistakes we saw but all said and done we are ready to host Africa in August Alli assured.