Adibe Emenyonu in Benin City Moved by the car and N1 million cash gifts which the Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki promised her, the second best school administrator in Nigeria, who also received the best teacher award, Mrs. Noragbon Osaru has pledged to do more for her pupils in Emotan Primary School. At the unveiling of 7,000 digital trained teachers in Benin City, Osaru was promised N1 million and a brand new car by the governor for emerging the second best head teacher in Nigeria and the best in the state. Speaking to journalists at the event, she dedicated the awards to Almighty God who singled her out for the honour by the governor. “I also dedicate the awards to my fellow teachers and pupils of my school and I am grateful to the Edo State government that gave me the platform to teach. Our governor is a man of his words and I promise to do more for Edo pupils.” She also expressed excitement about the rare reward from the governor “who promised us months ago that he will reward hard working teachers in the state and I am so happy to be favoured by his administration that believes in merit and hard work.” Osaru thanked the Chairman of the Edo State Universal Education Board (SUBEB), Dr. Joan Osa Oviawe, who is implementing the governor’s vision in the basic education sector with a high sense of professionalism. “These awards are to all of us in our school; the teachers and pupils because I could not have done the work alone.” On how she emerged the second best head teacher in the country, Osaru explained that the journey started in August, when she was screened alongside 17 other best head teachers and teachers representing the 18 local government areas of the state. “I was interviewed and drilled by the officials of government who found me worthy after the assessment, to represent Edo State at the national level and I emerged second best school administrator in Nigeria.
To her colleagues, she said: “I will advise other teachers in the country to be more committed to their duty. They should see their job as an opportunity to contribute to the growth of the country. “The government cannot do everything, I do not wait for government to provide all the money to make things work in my school. Head teachers should be creative and make the best of the resources at their disposal.”