Volunteers and other stakeholders within the Dangote conglomerate worldwide, otherwise called Dangote Champions recently operationalised the company’s sustainability policy framework when they embarked on various activities aimed at impacting the environment positively across Nigeria and in some African countries. This, the Champions explained, is to promote sustainable development in ‘The Dangote Way’ under the seven sustainability pillars adopted and practicalised by the organisation. The activities, which coincided with the United Nations 73rd General Assembly at the New York Headquarters were carried out with a ‘Call to Action’, included environmental cleanups, tree planting, road rehabilitation, health outreach and sensitisation. Others involved awareness creation on safety and clean environment, hospital sanitation and clean-up, educational outreach and donation of materials, and organisation of symposia; all of which were undertaken by volunteer Dangote staff and external partners and stakeholders. The sustainability exercises, which spanned four days (September 24 to 27) included cleanup of Oniru Block-makers village in Victoria Island, Lagos; cleanup of Ajibese community undertaken by Dangote Cement PLC at Ibese; cleanup of Anjorin Market in Apapa by Apapa Greenville; and Isolo community clean-up by DCP Cement Depot, Isolo. There was also beach cleanup and tree planting in Tema by DCP Ghana; hospital sanitation and cleanup in Bounsa by DCP Congo; educational outreach in Douala by DCP Cameroon; and road rehabilitation and symposium by DCP Gboko in Benue State of Nigeria. The Oniru activities, which were carried out alongside programme partners like VisionScape, Growing Businesses Foundation (GBF), and the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF), showcased the seven sustainability pillars of the Dangote Group, including environmental, economic, social, financial, operational, financial, cultural, and institutional pillars. The Oniru block-makers village cleanup, witnessed by the Dangote Group Chief Human Resources Officer, Mr. Usen Udoh; Mr. Mohammed Sani-Dangote; Chief Operating Officer of VisionScape, Mr. Thomas Forgacs; Head, SME of LSETF, Mr. Charles Anyanwu; and Programme Director of GBF, Mr. Seyi Dare, involved dozens of volunteers from Dangote Head Office. Aside the cleanup of the block market, a female beneficiary, Alufojie Happiness Mercy was given a loan by GBF to help improve the block and cement seller’s livelihood and financial sustainability. The sustainability week activities, which also included a selfie competition, preceded the annual Dangote Cement Customer Service Week, which is marked all over the Group’s plants.