Sylvester Idowu in Warri The Minister of State Petroleum Resources, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu, was recently honoured by the Petroleum Training Institute (PTI) during its graduation ceremony. The Petroleum Training Institute, established by Act No. 37 of 1972 as amended by Act No. 2 of 1973 and PTI CAP P16 of the Federal Republic
of Nigeria 2004, is mandated to produce skilled Technical Manpower for the Nigerian Oil and Gas industry, arrange conferences, seminars for
oil production. Principal and Chief Executive Officer of PTI, Professor Sunny Iyuke, while speaking at a media briefing on the sidelines of the convocation ceremony, said the minister was honoured with the “PTI Life Recognition Award,” for his invaluable contributions to the development of the institute and the oil and gas sector. He disclosed that a total of 1086 technologists and technicians were awarded the Higher National Diplomas, National Diplomas and the
PTI General Certificates. Iyuke, said of the number, 53 passed with distinctions while 356 bagged Upper Credits boasting that the graduates were well baked
to international standards. In realisation of PTI objectives, he said the institute had worked very hard to fulfil the aim of the federal government’s content policy and the 2015 change agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari by developing and training competent manpower specifically for the sector. “Since inception, the institute has graduated over 46,000 technologists and technicians in different disciplines. “The PTI is changing its focus from local certification to international certification and training bodies. “The aim of the collaboration is to produce fit for purpose world class indigenous technical manpower to drive the
Nigerian oil and gas industry in line with the global best practice,” he added. The Principal/CEO reiterated several achievements of his administration since he assumed office in July 2016 to include
rejigging Research and Development (R&D) to carry out industry-solution research on the nation’s refineries and allied companies; collaboration with the University of Port Harcourt to commence post-HND programmes in all field of engineering, which would lead to award of Bachelor of Engineering (B. Eng) to graduates of the school. Others, he said, included construction of a 300 seater theatre hall on the main campus; renovation of academic block; construction of a standard swimming pool at Aladja; amongst others. HCM Introduces New Product Hollandia ChocoMalt Drink is now available in a new 180ml pack.
The new pack was intended to provide an entry point for adults and upsize for kids, while building on the commercial success the brand is enjoying following its launch in 2017. Retailing at N100, the new 180ml pack comes handy with a straw, and is affordable and convenient, with the promise of instant nutrition to consumers. A statement from the company explained that for consumers, Hollandia ChocoMalt Drink which is filled with the goodness of milk, energy giving malt and delicious chocolate, would take away the hassles and inconvenience involved in preparing Choco-based beverage drink the traditional way because it can be consumed immediately after opening. It is expected to consolidate the growth and rising market appeal of the brand, as well as make the product available to a wider spectrum of young consumers who desire a satisfying and functional beverage that can be consumed at any time.
According to the Managing Director, Chi Limited, Mr. Deepanjan Roy, the growing popularity of Hollandia ChocoMalt Drink “reflects how its ready-to-drink convenience and quality instant nutrition is driving consumer demand for packaging sizes tailored ever more precisely to their specific lifestyle needs in an increasingly dynamic market.
“We are aware of consumer expectations from us, and the new Hollandia Choco Malt Drink 180ml pack is a great example of how we are innovating with pack sizes to satisfy consumers’ demand.”