By Shola Oyeyipo in Abuja Barely two weeks after resumption from about three months recess, the House of Representatives Wednesday commenced a two-week adjournment. This followed the adoption of a motion for adjournment moved by Hon. Mohammed Babagana Monguno and seconded by Hon. Oker-Jev Yisa, during plenary. The Speaker, Hon. Yakubu Dogara, said the adjournment is an opportunity for the lawmakers to carry out their oversight functions. The lawmakers however adopted the report of the House Committee on Electoral and Political Party Matters on a bill for an act to amend the Electoral Act No. 6, 2018 and passed it into law addressing all the grey areas hitherto highlighted by President Muhammadu Buhari. Also during plenary, the new leadership for some of the committees were announced. Former chairman, Rules and Business, Hon. Orker-Jev Yisa, moved to Committee on Federal Capital Territory (FCT); Edward Pwajok is now Chairman, Rules and Business; Hon. Dantuse Mutari is now Chairman, FCT Judiciary and Hon. Abdulmumin Jibrin was named as the Chairman of Committee on Land Transport. Others are: Hon. Sadiq Abubakar (Human Rights), Hon. Mahmood Mohammed (Housing), Hon. Tajudeen Abbas (Solid Minerals), Hon. Haliru Jika (Privatisation and Commercialisation), Hon. Yerima Ahmad (Constituency Outreach), Hon. Lawal Abubakar (Police) and Hon. Aminu Sani (Population). Also, members of the House of Representatives urged the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to quickly intervene by providing succour to communities ravaged by the devastating flood in Ahoada-West and Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni Local Government Areas of Rivers State. The call followed a motion by Hon. Uchechukwu Nnam-Ob (Ahoada West/Ogba Egbema), where he called the attention of the House to the devastating effects of flood in his constituency. According to him, most residents of Omoku, Okwuizi, Ebocha, Ogbidi, AseAzaga, Utuechi, Ndoni, Mgbede, Obrikom, Krigani, Ikiri, Aligu, Akabuka, Obieche, Obagi, Ohali Usomini, Oborburu, Ohali-Elu, Abomini, Olokuma, Okarki and so many other parts of the state have been sacked from their homes and are currently living in internally displaced persons (IDP) camps.