*Confirms Ingawa as FCSC chair, Gbajabiamila as lottery commission DG By Deji Elumoye in Abuja The Senate on Wednesday adjourned plenary for two weeks to enable its standing committees carry out oversight on ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs), especially on the implementation of the 2018 Appropriation Act. Senate President Bukola Saraki, who announced the adjournment during plenary, said Senators were expected to resume legislative duties on Tuesday, November 6. Saraki was reacting to a motion moved by the Leader of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan(APC Kebbi North), who in the course of moving the motion also welcomed Senator Osinaka Chukwu (PDP Rivers West) who defected to the ruling APC. The motion was seconded by the Minority Deputy Leader, Senator Emmanuel Bwacha(PDP Taraba South) before Saraki subjected the motion to voice votes and the legislators shouted “ayes” in approval of the break. Saraki explained that the recess will give the lawmakers ample opportunity to carry out thorough oversight on the MDAs being supervised by them. He added that the two-week recess would not only enable relevant committees to carry out their oversight functions, but also attend to the implementation of the 2018 national budget and the recently approved Eurobond loan. “The committees will still be meeting till Tuesday, November 6, because the recess is only for plenary session”, Saraki stressed. The Senate had resumed on Tuesday, October 9 from its 11-week annual recess and only had plenary sessions for two weeks. Meanwhile, Saraki has named Senator Danjuma La’ah(PDP Kaduna South) as the new chairman of the Committee on Poverty Alleviation. He replaced the former chairman , Senator Ali Wakili(APC Bauchi South), who died in April. The upper chamber of the National Assembly also on Wednesday confirmed the appointment of Dr Bello Ingawa as Chairman of the Federal Civil Service Commission, FCSC. It also confirmed the appointment of 12 other nominees as Commissioners of the Commission. The confirmation was sequel to the presentation of the report of the eight-man committee on Establishment and Public Service by its Chairman, Senator Emmanuel Paulker (PDP Bayelsa Central), at plenary that the Senate should consider the confirmation of Ingawa (Katsina), a former federal permanent secretary as FCSC Chairman and 12 other nominees as Commissioners. The confirmed FCSC Commissioners include Moses Ngbale(Adamawa), Waziri Ngurno(Borno), Bello Babura(Jigawa), Ahmed Sarna(Kebbi), Iyabode Odulate-Yusuf(Ogun) and Shehu Danyaya( Niger). Others are Fatai Adebayo(Oyo), Ejoh Chukwuemeka(Anambra), Joe Poroma(Rivers) while three others namely Ibrahim Mohammed(Kaduna), Aminu Sheidu((Kogi) and Simon Etim (Akwa Ibom) had their appointments as Commissioners renewed. The Senate also on Wednesday confirmed the appointment of Mr Lanre Gbajabiamila as Director-General of National Lottery Regulatory Commission, NLRC. Chairman of the Senate Eight-man Committee on Sports and Youth Development, Senator Ogba Obinna(PDP Ebonyi Central), had at plenary presented the nomination of Gbajabiamila, former General Manager/CEO of Lagos State Infrastructure Asset Management Agency, who was screened by the Committee on October 24, 2017, as Chairman of NLRC for confirmation by the Senate. Saraki, in his remarks, congratulated the new appointees and urged them to put national interest first in the course of their new assignment.