11:56 PM Jonathan spoke on the PDP presidential aspirants. He said 12 persons just spoke at the convention and one of them will be the next president of Nigeria. Noting that all of them were eminently qualified to be the president, he said one of them will be chosen to fly the part’s flag. He said though PDP was in opposition, it had the Senate presidency and Speakership of the House of Representatives, describing it as a great achievement for the party. 11:48 PM Former President Goodluck Jonathan addresses the convention 11:43 PM Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu addresses the convention 11:40 PM Turaki urged delegates to votef or the candidate that can win election. He said since 2015, election had ceased to be about the platform presenting the candidate but about the candidate its self. He said he had the capacity to attract support from Nigerians in a general election. Turaki urged delegates to make a choice that will give power back to PDP adding that he represents that choice. 11:32 PM Another Aspirant Taminu Turaki addresses the convention 11:31 PM Tambuwal said Nigeria was looking for a leader that can be trusted.  He said he was just 52 years old but he was member of theHouse of Representatives for 12 years, and presided over the House. He said he had been governor of Sokoto State for close to four years now.  He said Nigeria was looking for a leader who will ensure due process, rights of citizens and inclusiveness in government and a leader who will provide the leadership that a 21st century Nigeria needs. He pledged to work with whoever emerges to rescue Nigeria from bad governance if he fails to get the ticket. 11:23 PM Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal addresses the convention 11:23 PM Saraki said Nigeria today is divided and the poverty in the land does not recognize tribe or religion. He said Nigeria must vote for competence and a person that can lead the country out of its problems. He pleaded with the delegates to vote for him if they are looking for a 21st century leader.  He urged the delegates not to vote based on sentiments. He said this was time for a youthful president because the work of the president is a 24-hour work 11:16 PM Senate President Bukola Saraki addressing the convention 11:16 PM Senator Mark said he is the only candidate with female director General of his campaign because he is gender friendly. He said if elected candidate and president, he would urgently unite the country and reorganize the security architecture. He said coming from a security background he had the wherewithal to tackle the nation’s security challenges. He said he had a blueprint that can revamp the economy in 730 days. He told the delegates that he had the courage, experience and the political will to honour promises made. He said he can be trusted. 11:09 PM *Former Senate President David Mark addressing the convention 11:08 PM  Makarfi said PDP is now vibrant and kicking and enemies of democracy who are not happy about that would now have the option of committing suicide. He said he sees a bright future for the party. Noting that even if he fails to emerge as the candidate of the party, he would accept the outcome of the election. He however pleaded for the votes of delegates. He said restructuring was not a personal programme of any member of the party, but the policy of PDP. On what Nigeria stands to gain if elected as candidate and elected, he said he would address restructuring, education and security challenges 10:59 PM *Former Governor Ahmed Makarfi addresses the convention 10:58 PM *Lamido urged delegates to follow their conscience when they are casting their votes and pleaded with them to vote for him so that he could be the candidate 10:53 PM *Former Governor Sule Lamido addressing the convention 10:52 PM *Kwankwaso said today was the appropriate day to apologise to former President Goodluck Jonathan whom they erroneously thought led the worst government. He said Buhari has made everybody realize that Jonahtan was not bad as they thought. He pleaded for the support of the delegates  based on his track record spanning both the executive and legislative arms of government. He pleaded with delegates to ensure that they pick a candidate that can win election. 10:43 PM *Former Governor Rabiu Kwakwanso addressing the convention 10:42 PM He described today as historic to rescue Nigeria. He urged the delegates to vote for him noting his track record in military and politics.  He said he served in the military and fought the civil war. He said he was also part of NADECO which fought for the restoration of democracy. Jang said he was military governor and also governor of Plateau State. Jang said he had been loyal to the PDP. He said he would push for restructuring and that he is known as Mr. Restructuring. As a middle-Beltan committed to the unity of Nigeria, he pleaded for the votes of the delegates Former President Goodluck Jonathan arrives Pleading for support, Datti Ahmed told delegates that the choice they will make today would make the difference between progress and retrogression. He said delegates were their own godfathers and whatever choice they make today was between them and their God and between them and their nation Gombe State Governor Ibrahim Dankwambo addressing the convention Bafarawa pleaded for the support of the delegates and urged them to consider his track record as a democrat and a detribalised Nigerian. He promised to tackle the issue of bad roads adding that without good roads there is no way government can boost the economy. 10:13 PM *Former Governor Attahiru Bafarawa addressing the convention * Atiku described 2019 election as the most crucial since the return of democracy to Nigeria in 1999. He said Nigeria voted for change in 2015 but they got a change they did not bargain for.  He urged delegates to look at his track record and entrust him with the party’s presidential flag. 10:05 PM *Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar addressing the convention Dogara said the bane of the development of Nigeria was leadership. He said when Nigeria gets the right leadership, all other challenges would be tackled. He said with the right leadership, Nigeria will not only be the pride of Africa but the entire world. Dogara urged delegates not to exercise their rights to choose the party’s flagbearer carelessly. 9:47 PM *House of Representatives Speaker Yakubu Dogora is currently addressing the gathering 9:42 PM Former Senate President Adolphus Wabara addressing the convention on behalf of the party’s Board of Trustees · *National Secretary Senator Umar Ibrahim Tsauri addressing the convention on the state of the party 9:24 PM * Chairman of the convention Committee and Governor of Delta State Ifeanyi Okowa giving his address *Assures aspirants and party members that the election process would be free, fair and transparent * He told members that whatever choice of candidate made at the convention would go a long way in rescuing Nigeria from bad leadership of the APC. 9:14 PM *Alleging that free and fair election is not on the agenda of the Buhari led government, Secondus said what happened in Ekiti and Osun corroborated the fact that INEC and security agencies were working for the ruling APC ahead of 2019. *Secondus called for a minute silence for those that had been killed in violent attacks across the nation.  He said poverty had reduced Nigeria to the global warehouse of poor people, adding hat governance has never been this bad in Nigeria. 9:09 PM *He described PDP as an organic party and assured party members that it will outlive the convention 9:00 PM * PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, now addressing the convention * Large turnout at Adokiye Amiesimaka Stadium, venue of the convention 