Ugo Aliogo The Transnational Corporation of Nigeria Plc (Transcorp), Nigeria’s leading diversified listed conglomerate has announced new appointments to its board and executive management. A statement from the corporation disclosed that Valentine Ozigbo has been appointed the President/CEO of Transcorp. His appointment becomes effective from January 1, 2019. He will succeed Mr. Adim Jibunoh, who is retiring on December 31, 2018. Ozigbo, currently the MD/CEO of Transcorp Hotels Plc, owner of the prestigious Transcorp Hilton Abuja, will bring over 20 years’ experience in banking, business development, hospitality and corporate transformation. A multiple award winner, Ozigbo holds an M.Sc. Finance from Lancaster University, UK; an MBA in Banking & Finance and a B.Sc. in Accounting from the University of Nigeria. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria. Also, Owen Omogiafo, has been appointed MD/CEO of Transcorp Hotels Plc. Similarly, Omogiafo’s appointment becomes effective from January 1, 2019. She is currently the Executive Director, Corporate Services at Transnational Corporation of Nigeria Plc. She has over 18 years’ corporate experience in organisational development strategy, human capital management, banking, change and business management. She holds a B.Sc. in Sociology & Anthropology from the University of Benin and M.Sc. in Human Resource Management from the London School of Economics and Political Science. Omogiafo, is a member of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD), UK and a Certified Change Manager with the Prosci Institute, USA. In the same vein, the Board of Transcorp also approved the appointment of Ms. Obi Ibekwe and Mrs. Toyin F. Sanni as Non-executive Directors, following the retirement of Mr. Kayode Fasola and Alhaji Abdulqadir Jeli Bello. But these appointments would become effective from October 30, 2018. Sanni was Group Chief Executive Officer at United Capital Plc, a position she retired from in June 2018. She has over 25 years of experience in investor services, law and finance. She holds a Bachelor of Law degree from the University of Ife, an LLM from the University of Lagos as well as a professional qualification of the I.C.S.A. UK and the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (C.I.S) Nigeria. On the other hand, Ibekwe was an Executive Director at United Bank for Africa Plc, a position she retired from in May 2016. She holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in International Relations from Tufts University, Medford, Massachusetts, U.S.A., a Bachelor of Law degree from the University of Lagos and an MBA degree from the Ross School of Business, University of Michigan, U.S.A. She has over two decades experience in banking, holding senior executive and senior management positions spanning credit and marketing, credit risk management, human resources and customer service. Transcorp Hotels Plc also announced the appointment of Emmanuel Nnorom as the Chairman of its Board, following the retirement of Alhaji Abdulqadir Bello. Nnorom is the Group Chief Executive Officer of Heirs Holdings, after retiring as the President/CEO of Transcorp. He brings over three decades of professional experience in the corporate and financial sectors, working with publicly listed companies. He is an alumnus of Oxford University’s Templeton College, and a prize winner and Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria. Speaking on the appointments, the Chairman, Transcorp Mr. Tony Elumelu, expressed confidence that the newly appointed chief executives and non-executive directors would further strengthen Transcorp’s core purpose of improving lives across Nigeria. He added, “We are pleased to have the diversity, depth and quality of experience that these directors bring to our group. The executive appointments are a testament to our internal succession capacity and the appointees will build on the achievement of their predecessors. “By these appointments, we have further deepened our corporate governance capabilities, and firmed up our leadership position in the sectors we invest in.” Elumelu also commended the retiring directors for their meritorious service to the Group over the years. He said the Board of Transcorp would continue to implement its defined strategy, which has led its investee companies being leaders in their industries and to take the Group to the next level. Transcorp is a publicly quoted conglomerate with a diversified shareholder base of over 300,000 investors. Its portfolio comprises strategic investments in the power, hospitality, agribusiness and oil and gas sectors. Other businesses include Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja; Transcorp Hotels Calabar; Transcorp Power Limited and Transcorp Energy Limited. Transcorp Hotels Plc is the hospitality subsidiary of Transnational Corporation of Nigeria Plc. The company owns and operates the multiple award-winning Transcorp Hilton Abuja, which provides luxury accommodation, world-class cuisines, conferencing and leisure facilities to business travellers and tourists from all over the world. The company also holds 100 per cent interest in Transcorp Hotels Calabar Limited, which owns and operates the Transcorp Hotel in Calabar.