By Yinka Kolawole Osogbo The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Wednesday issued a certificate of return to the Osun State governor-elect, Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola, for winning the just concluded gubernatorial poll in the state. Having polled 255,505 to defeat his opponent, Senator Ademola Adeleke of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who scored 255,023 in the election, Oyetola of the All Progressives Congress (APC), was declared winner by the Returning Officer, Prof. Joseph Adeola Fuwape. He was given the certificate at the INEC headquarters along Gbongan/Ibadan road, Osogbo, the state capital. Speaking at the state’s INEC headquarters along Gbongan/Ibadan road, Osogbo, the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Mr Olusegun Agbaje, said the commission has done its best to deliver good election and promote its image. Agbaje, who said he remained neutral throughout the process, added that: “If at the end of litigation at the Supreme Court of Nigeria, the commission is found culpable for not discharging its responsibility faithfully and diligently, I will take full responsibility for any such laxity, publicly apologise to all Nigerians and thereafter resign my appointment with the commission. “It should be put on record that after carrying out a thorough investigation of all the allegations of intimidation of voters suspected to belong to a particular party, violence, arrest of journalists and observers raised by some groups, the office discovered that all the allegations were not absolutely correct, especially as those arrested by the police with fake observer tags are still being investigated. “Other issues raised by the US, UK and EU and the domestic observer groups would be closely studied by the commission for further appropriate action.” In his speech, the governor-elect, Oyetola, commended INEC, security agencies and all stakeholders who worked to ensure the success of the election in the state. “It was tough, but we thank God. I want to assure the people of Osun that I will justify the confidence reposed in me. I will always consult stakeholders in taking crucial decision. Welfare of the people will be my focus,” he said.