By Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja The Atiku Presidential Campaign Organisation has challenged the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari to mention three projects it has initiated, started and completed in the last three years. The Buhari Campaign Organisation had on Sunday launched an attack on the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, and on Monday, the Acting National Publicity Secretary of All Progressive Congress (APC) Yekini Nabena also accused him of being desperate. In a statement Tuesday by the Atiku Presidential Campaign Organisation, it said: “Our response to the APC is to ask who is desperate between a Muhammadu Buhari who said if what happened in 2011 should again happen in 2015, by the grace of God, the dog and the baboon would all be soaked in blood and an Atiku Abubakar who said love and peace should not only be preached, but must also be put into practice for the sake of sustaining the peace in our land? It added: “It is left for Nigerians to judge, but even a blind person can see that Nigeria has been soaked in blood ever since she was unfortunate enough to have fallen under the rulership of a man whose words are destructive and never productive.” It explained that some of Atiku’s achievements as Nigeria’s vice-president and as head of the National Council of Privatisation (NCP) included superintending over the GSM revolution that saw Nigeria go from 50,000 to 100 million GSM lines, adding that 500,000 direct jobs were created and the Nigerian economy attracted $27 billion. “Our question to President Buhari and the APC is how many jobs have they created? A further achievement of the former vice-president is initiating, starting and completing several road projects all over Nigeria including roads in President Buhari’s home state of Katsina. In return, we challenge President Buhari and the APC to mention three projects that they have initiated, started and completed in the last three years.” It said it was laughable that the APC scribe had the guts to question Atiku’s source of wealth. “We wish to remind APC’s National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, that Atiku Abubakar is not like President Buhari who has never run a successful private business throughout his life,” it said.