Porsche’s latest brand experience destination, a three-month long pop-up, is now open at La Mer. The result of a collaboration between the brand’s regional office, Porsche Centre Dubai and MERAAS, the new go-to destination is open to all sports car enthusiasts, customers and the public. Located at the Smoky Beach venue those visiting La Mer can get access to the Porsche lifestyle at one of Dubai’s most popular beach spots. Running until January 19th, 2019, the pop-up will feature an exciting roster of the brand’s sports cars on display, starting with the 718 Boxster GTS in a striking Miami Blue exterior colour. Sporty performance, sharp design and a convertible roof make this two-seater the perfect choice for driving fun over the UAE’s winter months. Reinforcing the Porsche lifestyle further, a specially commissioned set of artworks by 3D artist, Chris LaBrooy, have been created to celebrate the launch of Porsche La Mer, which will host a range of events over the next three months. Those visiting the pop-up will be able to order food and drink, whilst interacting with the Porsche Pro, a member of staff who will be on-hand to answer questions and offer test-drives to those interested in extending their Porsche experience. Speaking about the opening of the pop-up, Peter Vogel, Acting Chief Executive Officer and Sales Director of Porsche Middle East and Africa FZE, said: “With more than 70 years of experience building sports cars, the Porsche name has transcended beyond just vehicle production. It is now a brand with a true lifestyle appeal. As such, creating experiences like the one at La Mer, for people to immerse themselves in everything Porsche, is an important part of our culture. I would like to congratulate Porsche Centre Dubai on their role in the opening of this exciting destination.” Vijay Rao, General Manager of Porsche Centre Dubai and Northern Emirates, added: “Porsche La Mer is part of our customer-centric approach to bringing the brand and services directly to where our customers are, and we look forward to interacting with current and future Porsche customers in this vibrant new venue in Dubai, where they can relax, eat and get to grips with our diverse line-up of sports cars.”
Porsche La Mer is open daily from 12pm till 3am until January 19th, 2019.