The Nigerian Information  Technology sector, the Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria  (ATCON),  has honoured exceptional operators, who have contributed immensely to the growth of the sector  at the second edition of the Nigeria Tech Innovation and Telecom Awards (NTITA). The award ceremony held at the Oriental Hotels in Victoria Island, Lagos, was graced by regulators, operators, telecommunications customers and other stakeholders in the industry. President of ATCON, Olusola Teniola pointed out that the efforts, powered by Instinct wave Africa, a leading B2B event organiser, was in recognition of the laudable feats in the ICT space despite challenges in the business environment such as multiple taxation, forex, right of way issues, multiple regulation and a host of others. “Despite all these challenges, our members are not found wanting in the discharge of delivering quality telecommunication services to Nigerians. It is on this basis that ATCON thought it fit to reward and appreciate individuals and organisations  that have continued to provide seamless communications services to Nigerians regardless of the  nature of the environment.” NTITA is reputed to be the most celebrated industry awards that has grown to be the Oscars of the ICT and Telecoms Industry. Group Chief Executive Officer of Instinct Wave, Akin Naphtal, informed that the latest edition of the award was specially packaged to promote success stories, technology advancement and disruption in the market. “ Not only do we look at businesses, but also individuals who have made a genuine impact on the market from within these companies. The industry is driven by people who deserve to have their contributions recognised,” he said. The award  has judges from an independent panel of industry experts that recognise organisational performances products and services, innovations, executives, etc. At the colourful event, telecommunication giant, MTN stole the show to emerge the biggest winner of the year with five distinguished awards to its credit including: Telecom Company of the year, Social Impact Award, Digital Transformation Award, Customer Experience Award and Telecom CEO of the year awards.