The senator representing Kogi West in the National Assembly Dino Melaye has called on the people in the constituency to vote massively for him in the 2019 senatorial poll so as to “improve on my modest achievements in the service of our people”. In a statement by Melaye Tuesday titled: “The Gospel According to Senator Dino Melaye 2019: Arise O Compatriots”, he said that he is “soliciting the support of all Kogites in the West to reject any imported person that has no bearing with our state and the common man”. He said when given a fresh mandate to represent the senatorial district in the Red Chamber, his advocacy for good governance would be digitalised to bring the dividends of democracy to the people, adding that: “I will never betray your confidence and no amount of intimidation can stop me from fighting the cause of my people. Above all I will work with all my strength to attract the presence of federal government to Kogi State. “Fellow Kogites of the Western axis, the coming senatorial election in 2019 is a test case for our familiar unity, integrity and our common heritage. Our past heroes never surrendered or mortgaged their sovereign rights to choose their leaders to despots for the sake of butter and bread. “We must for this reason rise to consolidate our inherited courage, liberty, and freedom by supporting me as your worthy son in the 2019 senatorial election to improve on my modest achievements in the service of our people.” Melaye, who said he would join hands with the new government to reduce poverty and unemployment and also bring down the price of goods and services, admonished his constituents that they must reject externally influenced or sponsored division among brothers of a common heritage and history. He said he salutes the courage and perseverance of the people of Kogi State in the face of the harsh economic condition and unmitigated misrule never witnessed in the history of any administration since the creation of the state. According to him, “I have resolved more than ever before, to rededicate my political career to the defence of the defenceless no matter the threats. “I have never been a senator in exile. I am a home grown senator from Kogi West. Your support and solidarity with me during my moment of trial will be adequately compensated.”