First Bank of Nigeria Football Club of Lagos at the weekend emerged champions of the 32nd edition of the Central Bank of Nigeria sponsored All Nigeria Financial Institutions Football competition To emerge champion, FBN defeated Securities and Exchange Commissions (SEC) FC of Abuja 4-2 to cart home the giant trophy and the N2million star prize. SEC Abuja got N1.5m and the runners-up trophy for their efforts. The final match played at the Lekan Salami Stadium in Ibadan, was watched by who-is-who in Nigeria football administration and a some ex- Internationals including former midfielder, Mutiu Adepoju. The epic final ended 1-1 at regulation time before dragging into penalty shootout which FBN won. Speaking at the occasion, the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria,  Mr. Godwin Emefiele, commended all the teams that participated in this year’s edition and stressed that the championship was one of the foremost and oldest corporate responsibility functions of the CBN
Mr. Emefiele who was represented by the Controller of the Ibadan branch of the CBN, Mrs. Ajuma Modojemu, reiterated the apex bank’s commitment in making positive contributions toward the promotion and development of football in the country. The CBN Governor lauded the increase in the number of financial institutions that registered for this year’s competition and urge other institutions yet to register to do so in order to be captured in next year’s edition of the championship. Emefiele thanked the Oyo State government for making the Lekan Salami Stadium available for the exercise and the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) for mobilizing the teams and ensuring a hitch-free exercise. He also gave kudos to the media for their support at all time and fans for their conducts throughout the championship. Meanwhile, Azabe Zinariya MFB FC defeated Balogun Fulani MFB FC  6-2 to win the third placed match and claimed the N1million at stake for the 2nd runners–up while  Balogun Fulani was given  N500,000 as consolation prize for the 4th position. 