Femi Ogbonnikan in Abeokuta No fewer than 276 councillors drawn from across 20 local governments and 37 Local Council Development Areas in Ogun State, yesterday, declared their unflinching support for the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress in the state, Prince Dapo Abiodun. Abiodun, the governorship candidate of the party, was declared winner by the National Working Committee (NWC) panel headed by Muhammad Indabawa, in the October 3, 2018, direct primaries in the state. The councillors, who converged at the campaign office of the governorship candidate at Iperu-Remo, in Ikenne Local Government, said they had agreed with the decision of the NWC on the candidacy of Abiodun. They noted that as loyal party men, they would go with the party decision of the NWC on the primaries held in the state. While addressing journalists, representatives of the councillors, who were drawn from the three senatorial districts in the state, said that the NWC had made the right decision and they were ready to abide by it. Speaking on behalf of their colleagues, Nurudeen Aka, Solarin Taofik, Somefun Olajuwon and Dapo Taiwo, pleaded with the state governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, to eat the humble pie and support the NWC’s decision on the governorship candidate. Besides, they commended the governor for his contribution in building the party in the state and urged him to lead the campaign of the governorship candidate of the party to victory in the upcoming 2019 general elections. Solarin said, “We are here to declare our support for the NWC on its decision on the governorship candidacy of Dapo Abiodun in Ogun State. “We are begging the governor to embrace and support him as the APC governorship candidate in Ogun State. Governor Amosun is our leader in the party and we urge him to continue his support for the party for its success in the upcoming polls in 2019.” On his part, Aka said, “Whatever the party leaders say is what we are going to do, because the party is supreme.”