Coscharis Motors and Ford Motor Company have announced that they would sponsor the entrepreneurial reality TV show The Next Titan for a third consecutive season. The winner of Season 5 will receive a brand new Ford Focus to help them run their business more efficiently, according to a statement by the sponsors. Coscharis Motors is the sole official distributor of new Ford vehicles in Nigeria. Coscharis Motors and Ford were official automotive sponsors of The Next Titan in 2016 and 2017. The 2016 winner received a Ford Escape while the 2017 winner received a Ford Ranger. “Coscharis Motors is pleased to support the reality show once again,” says Abiona Babarinde, General Manager, Marketing and Corporate Communications at Coscharis Motors. “We are also excited to support emerging entrepreneurs in Nigeria as they resonate with the humble beginning of our company as an entrepreneur’s dream nurtured into a conglomerate. We appreciate our collaboration with Ford, and will continue to promote skills development and training in the automotive industry, and across the board in Nigeria. “Coscharis Motors wishes all participants the best of luck for the competition,” said Babarinde. “We believe that the current contestants will both inspire young entrepreneurs, and educate society on just how much hard work goes into growing a business.” Director of Marketing, Sales and Service for South Africa and Sub-Saharan Africa at Ford Motor Company, Conrad Groenewald said, “At Ford we firmly believe in the importance of mobility and freedom of movement in driving human progress. We hold firm to the vision of our founder Henry Ford who strived to put the world on wheels so everyone could enjoy the benefits of mobility. That is why we have continued this partnership, which will help a deserving contestant realise their dream.” The Next Titan, now in its fifth season, is a platform for young entrepreneurs to demonstrate their talent in business. The primary purpose of the programme is to challenge the public’s perception of entrepreneurship, to awaken the nation’s entrepreneurial spirit, to inspire contestants and viewers to strive for success in business, and become masters of their own destinies. Sixteen participants, between the ages of 21 and 40, will battle one another for 10 weeks in various business tasks, such as strategy, sales, marketing, and promotions. During the competition, participants and viewers get exposure to real-life entrepreneurial challenges through informal training, and a chance to learn from top business leaders. The winner will be announced in December 2018.