By Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti For announcing publicly that he has been placed on watch-list and directing that he should be arrested if he attempted to travel out of the country as a sitting governor , Ekiti State Governor, Mr. Ayodele Fayose, has demanded N20 billion as damages and written apology from the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Fayose said  the  written apology  should  be sent to all security agencies in Nigeria, and published in three national newspapers and the social media. The governor is also seeking  a withdrawal of the request/directive to security agencies to place him on security watch list. He threatened that “unless these demands are met within 72 hours of the date of this letter, we shall not hesitate to carry out our client’s firm instruction to proceed forthwith to institute legal action against you to seek appropriate remedies before the law court without any further recourse to you.” In a statement issued yesterday, the governor’s Special Assistant on Public Communications, Mr. Lere Olayinka, stated that the demands were contained in a letter by Fayose’s counsel, Obafemi Adewale, dated October 3, 2018, which was received at the Abuja office of the EFCC, yesterday. The letter reads; “By a letter Ref No: 3000/EFCC/ABJ/EG/TA/VOL.59/010 dated September 12, 2018, you instructed all security agencies in Nigeria, including but not limited to the Nigerian Customs Service, (NCS), to place our Client on a watch list and to arrest him at sight upon ‘suspicion’ that he might be attempting to flee the country. “ In your exact words, we quote:  ‘The under listed suspect is under investigation in connection with the above-mentioned offences and there is reasonable suspicion suggesting that he may likely leave the country either through the land borders, airport, or seaport in order to envade investigation. Hence, you are kindly requested to watch-list and arrest him.’ “By these words, you have not only fallen foul of the clear provision of Section 308 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic, which grants our client, as an incumbent governor, immunity from any criminal process/proceedings, you have also exposed our client to ridicule, opprobrium, odium and hatred in the eyes and opinion of the ordinary man on the street and falsely and mischievously portrayed him as a common fugitive, a run-away from the law who could/should be arrested at sight like a dangerous criminal. “By this act and words, particularly coming after our client had by his letter of  September 10, 2018 duly received in your office on September 11, 2018 voluntarily without any prompting by you or anybody else, offered to report in your office in Abuja on  October 16, 2018, the very next day after his tenure as Governor, Ekiti State would have ended and his immunity lifted, you have demonstrated premeditated mischief, open hatred for our client and contempt for his office as governor. “This is even more so when considered against the background of your earlier threat on your official EFCC twitter handle which was widely circulated on the social media and published in the Punch Newspaper of July 16, 2018 where you mocked our client in the following words to the whole world: ‘The parri is over, the cloak of immunity is torn apart and the staff broken, Ekiti Integrated Poultry/Biological Concepts Limited N1.3 billion fraud case file dusted off the shelves. See you soon.’ “In the light of the above, our client has directed that we demand of you and we hereby demand as follows; a retraction and withdrawal of the aforesaid request/directive to security agencies to place our client of the security watch list and arrest him at sight even whilst he still enjoys immunity as governor forthwith. “A written apology to our client published to all security agencies in Nigeria and in three National Newspapers and the Social Media for the flagrant mischievous and deliberate attempt to breach his constitutional rights and malign him in the eyes of right thinking members of the society. “Payment of the sum of N20 billion as damages  to our client for the flagrant, deliberate, pre-meditated and reckless libel and unprovoked attack on his character and reputation and breach of his constitutional right/immunity as an incumbent governor. “Take notice that unless these demands are met within 72 hours of the date of this letter, we shall not hesitate to carry out our client’s firm instruction to proceed forthwith to institute legal action against you to seek appropriate remedies before the law court without any further recourse to you.”