• El-Rufai relaxes 24-hour curfew Deji Elumoye in Abuja and John Shiklam in Kaduna The Senate yesterday resolved to interface with relevant security agencies over the recent killings in some parts of Kaduna State that has resulted in the death of over 70 people. It also asked the federal government to ensure thorough probe of the killings with a view to bringing the perpetrators of the mayhem to book. The Senate’s position is coming as the Governor of Kaduna State, Nasir el-Rufai, yesteerday relaxed the 24-hour curfew imposed last Sunday on Kaduna Metropilis following outbreak of violence. This is sequel to a motion moved by Senator Suleiman Hunkuyi (Kaduna South) who came under issues of national importance to pointedly accuse the state governor of alleged complicity in the ongoing killings in Kasua Mageni in Chikun Local Government Area of the state and the need for the legislature to act fast to put an end to the massacre. The Senate therefore, resolved that the leadership of the National Assembly should urgently have an interface with relevant stakeholders within the executive arm of government to end the incessant wanton killings in Kaduna and other affected states . Contributing to Hunkuyi’s motion, which was seconded by Senator Ahmed Mohammed (APC Adamawa South), Senator Danjuma La’ah (PDP Kaduna South), opined that it was wrong for el-Rufai to have travelled outside the country without informing the Deputy Governor, Bala Bantex, and the state House of Assembly. “The Governor of the state , el-Rufai to a large extent , contributed to the cause of the ongoing mayhem in the state. “First, he travelled outside the state and the country without informing or transferring responsibility of governance to his deputy or even the State Assembly and secondly, he rushed back home and started making pronouncements that are further fueling the killings by making reference to none compensation of victims of the 2011 mayhem as cause of the ongoing killings. “Singling out the 2011 post election mayhem as the cause of the ongoing killings out of countless numbers of unfortunate ones that had happened in the state over the years is unacceptable and not helping matters,” he said. Senator Philio Gyunka (APC Adamawa South), on his part, alleged that coincidence of Governor El-rufai’s journey outside the country and breakout of the wanton killings in a situation where nobody was in charge of affairs of the state, indicated a calculated collaboration. He wondered why Kaduna State has remained a boiling point over the years despite having heavy presence of security establishments like the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA), Armed Forces Command and Staff College, Jaji, and many police formations. “Having all these high powered security establishments in the state without helping in stemming the tide of incessant mayhem, clearly shows that intelligence gathering and applications , are lacking on their part coupled with lack of findings on the part of government on illegal weapons being imported into the country “, he added . The Senate thereafter resolved that relevant security agencies should investigate the cause of the incident with the sole aim of bringing perpetrators to justice . It also urged the federal government to ensure urgent rescue of abducted traditional ruler in the state by alleged militias . The upper chamber of the National Assembly also yesterday urged the federal government to immortalise the late former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Idris Legbo Kutigi, by naming a national monument in his honour. Meanwhile, the Kaduna State Government yesterday relaxed the 24-hour curfew imposed on Sunday on Kaduna Metropolis following the outbreak of violence. A statement issued by Samuel Aruwan, Media Aide to Governor Nasir el-Rufai, said residents can move about freely to pursue their legitimate businesses from 6.00 a.m. to 5.p.m. The statement however, said a dusk to dawn curfew will commence from 5 p.m to 6 a.m daily until further notice and will be duly enforced. The curfew had impacted negatively on residents and their businesses, having been restricted to their homes in the past three days. The statement explained that the curfew hours were reviewed at a meeting of a committee of the State Security Council, which held yesterday at the Government House, Kaduna.