Emma Okonji The Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST), at the weekend in Lagos, join the rest of the world to celebrate this year’s World Post Week, where it recognised some members of staff, including the Postmaster General (PMG), for their outstanding performances in driving the goals of the new NIPOST with a vision to drive NIPOST into prosperity, using technology. NIPOST also used the occasion of the World Post Week to recognise Miss Calfos Ruqayah Boluwatife from Eko Akete Senior Secondary School in Lagos, who is the overall winner of the Universal Postal Union (UPU) Essay writing at the zonal level and 3rd position at the national level. She read her essay that gave her the winning spree to the delight of the audience who applauded her and her school for a brilliant performance. Driven by its universal service obligation, NIPOST organised the UPU Essay writing competition for secondary school students. The theme for this year’s World Post Week is ‘The Post: Delivering Good to the World’.
In her welcome address, the Lagos Zonal Manager at NIPOST, Mrs. Adebola Ayeni, said the Post has been undergoing a reform targeted at making the Post to deliver services in line with global best practices. According to Ayeni; “As part of the ongoing reform, NIPOST launched the Address Verification System (AVS) and Digital Address System (DAS), among other internet based products and services, to further drive efficiency in NIPOST.” Ayeni said NIPOST was planning to launch its Geo-coded mail box, which would be installed at the individual doorsteps or as communal boxes as an aspect of postal services delivery. The first paper presentation at the World Post Week celebration, titled: Evolving Into Digital Economy, was presented by Mr. Owolabi Awosan. He gave the evolution of technology trends from analogue to digital and the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) in driving global transformation. The second paper presentation by the General Manager, ICT, NIPOST, Dr. Thomas Gaga, looked at how NIPOST could key into the digital economy that is driven by technology evolution.