Femi Ogbonnikan in Abeokuta Ogun State Governor, Ibikunle Amosun, has fingered the National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, of conniving with a cabal in Lagos State that wrote a ‘fake’ result which produced Prince Dapo Abiodun as the party’s governorship standard bearer ahead of the 2019 general election. Amosun made the allegation in an interview yesterday shortly after the swearing-in of the new Chief Judge of the Ogun State, Mosunmola Dipeolu, held at the governor’s office in Abeokuta, the state capital. The embittered governor also fingered “former Governors, Bola Tinubu (Lagos), who is the national leader of the party, and Segun Osoba (Ogun State), as having played a strong role what he described as ‘fraud’, while predicating his argument on the silence of the duo, which he said translated to their consent to the electoral fraud. “The president already knows that there was no election in Ogun State. He knows that they just went to Lagos and wrote all results, and that all they did was fraud. “If the National Working Committee (NWC) or the national chairman said there was any election in Ogun State, it was all fraud. That is what I said!”Amosun, who could not hide his displeasure, insisted that there were no genuine primaries from the NWC of the party, and declared that the only authentic primary was the one which produced his anointed son, Adekunle Akinlade, as the state governorship candidate. “President Muhammadu Buhari already knows that there was no election in Ogun State other than the one we held. On the issue of Osoba, Tinubu and co, what we said was that there was silence from their end, and silence means consent. “We have not heard one word from any of them. Was there any election in Ogun State? They should come out from hiding behind one finger, but can they come out? People at this level should be courageous enough to take position and come to tell us whether there was election or not in the election,” he stated.