By Seriki Adinoyi in Jos Residents of Jos Thursday staged a protest demanding justice for the extra-judicial killing of one Mr. Linus Edogwu, a security guard with Diamond Bank, Ahmadu Bello way branch, Jos, who was allegedly shot at close range by some soldiers at the gate of the bank. An eyewitness said the incident occurred on Monday, October 22, 2018, at about 3pm after the bank had closed to customers. Banks in Jos close to customers by 3pm because of the security concerns in Jos. The soldiers had allegedly driven to the gate of the bank with their faces masked and demanded that the gate be opened. But the security guard told them the operation hours had passed and that they could only use the Automatic Teller Machine (ATM). Edogwu also insisted that the soldiers couldn’t be allowed into the bank premises with masked face, and with cocked riffles in their hands. As the argument ensued, one of the soldiers allegedly shot the security guard and killed him at the gate. He also allegedly shot and injured some members of staff of the bank and some customers using the ATM, who are now receiving treatment at the Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH). The soldiers immediately drove out of the scene while shooting into the air to disperse those who attempted to protest the extra-judicial killing. Confirming the incident, and condemning the action of the soldiers, the spokesman of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) in charge of security in the state, Major Adam Umar, in a press statement Thursday described the overbearing attitude of the soldiers as regrettable. Umar said: “Headquarters of Operation Safe Haven unequivocally condemn such over bearing acts and hereby state that it does not in any way represent the professional posture of the Armed Forces of Nigeria at large. The culprits have been identified apprehended and currently under detention and will be subjected to undergo constituted military justice procedure. The Commander OPSH once again, uses this medium to commiserate with the family of late Mr. Edogwu, the management of Diamond Bank as well as families of the injured staff.” He reiterated that the actions of the soldiers are in total variance with the military code of conduct, as well as rules of engagement of OPSH. Umar assured Jos residents that “OPSH will continue to work tirelessly to improve civil/military relations just as we implore well-meaning Nigerians to join hands with the command in the search for durable peace on the Plateau”.