Deji Elumoye in Abuja The Senator representing Rivers West, Osinakachukwu Ideozu, has defected from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the All Progressives Congress (APC). This is coming as the Senate wednesday adjourned plenary for two weeks to enable its standing committees to carry out oversight on ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) especially over the implementation of the 2018 Appropriation Act. The Majority Leader at the Senate, Senator Ahmed Lawan, announced Osinakachukwu’s defection at plenary yesterday. Lawan, who was moving a motion for the adjournment of plenary till November 6, welcomed and congratulated him for joining the majority party. With Osinakachukwu’s defection, the three senators from River the state, are now members of the APC. The others are Senators Andrew Uchendu (Rivers East) and Magnus Abe (Rivers South East). Meanwhile, the Senate yesterday adjourned plenary for two weeks to enable its standing committees to carry out oversight on ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) especially over the implementation of the 2018 Appropriation Act. Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, who announced the adjournment during plenary, said Senators are expected to resume legislative duties on November 6. Saraki explained that the recess will give the lawmakers ample opportunity to carry out thorough oversight on the MDAs being supervised by them. Saraki also named Senator Danjuma La’ah (PDP Kaduna South) as the new chairman of the Committee on Poverty Alleviation. He replaced the former chairman, Senator Ali Wakili (APC Bauchi South), who died in April. The upper chamber of the National Assembly also confirmed the appointment of Dr. Bello Ingawa as Chairman of the Federal Civil Service Commission (FCSC). It also confirmed the appointment of 12 other nominees as commissioners of the agency. The confirmed FCSC Commissioners include Moses Ngbale (Adamawa); Waziri Ngurno (Borno); Bello Babura (Jigawa); Ahmed Sarna (Kebbi); Iyabode Odulate-Yusuf (Ogun) and Shehu Danyaya (Niger). Others are Fatai Adebayo (Oyo); Ejoh Chukwuemeka (Anambra); Joe Poroma (Rivers) while three others namely Ibrahim Mohammed (Kaduna), Aminu Sheidu ((Kogi) and Simon Etim (Akwa Ibom) had their appointments as Commissioners renewed. The Senate also confirmed the appointment of Mr. Lanre Gbajabiamila as Director-General of National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC).