Nume Ekeghe The Chief Executive Officer of Union Bank of Nigeria Plc, Mr. Emeka Emuwa, has reiterated the bank’s commitment to education as a key driver of national development. He made this known at the first edition of the bank’s annual education fair titled ‘Edu360,’ that took place in Lagos. The event brought together stakeholders from across the education ecosystem, including teachers, parents, school owners, investors, students and other key participants. Tagged “Investing in the Future,” the event served as a platform for collaboration among the education sector stakeholders, with the goal of accelerating development and much needed investment in the sector. In his address, Emuwa said: “Edu360 is positioned to be the leading education platform in Nigeria, facilitating collaboration among stakeholders within the sector. “We firmly believe that the private sector, working closely with the government and other stakeholders, can play a critical role in fast tracking solutions to move the educational sector forward. “At Union Bank, we are committed to identifying sectors that are vital to shaping a better, sustainable future for Nigerians.” The Bank’s Head of Commercial Banking, Adekunle Sonola and other members of the Board of Directors were also in attendance along with Nigeria’s first female Minister of Industry, Mrs. Nike Akande; the Minister of Education, represented by the Vice Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe and the Governor of Lagos state represented by his Special Adviser on Education, Mr. Obafela Bank-Olemoh. While delivering the keynote address, Dr. Modupe Olateju-Adefeso, Managing Director of The Education Partnership (TEP) Centre spoke extensively on the linkage between and education and national development, drawing examples from the health sector. Over 200 teachers from government and private owned schools benefited from free training sessions as part of Union Bank’s drive to upskill the workforce of the important sector. The teachers also received free teaching aids to support their teaching efforts. There were also digital training sessions for parents and children, courtesy of Google, in addition to Coding and Robotics classes. The fair also featured private workshops and seminars to address sensitive issues concerning raising well-adjusted children in today’s world.