By Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti The Ekiti State Chief Judge (CJ), Justice Ayodeji Daramola, has called on Governor Kayode Fayemi to redesign the new Court Complex constructed by former Governor Ayodele Fayose within the Ado Ekiti High Court in a manner that will conform with the one that can be used for judicial purposes. Justice Daramola succinctly described the new state High Court complex commissioned by Fayose in May 2018 as “a hybrid of absurdity”, which he said made it difficult for the judiciary to make use of the edifice named after the first Chief Judge of Ekiti State and now a king of Iyin Ekiti, Oba Ademola Ajakaye. Speaking in Ado Ekiti on Tuesday at a special court sitting to mark the commencement of the 2018/2019 Legal Year, the CJ called on Fayemi to reconstruct the new High Court complex for smooth conduct of judicial process in the state. He said: “Since the creation of Ekiti State on 1st October, 1996, the Judiciary has suffered acute shortage of court halls and office accommodation. “It is thanks to Mr. Ayodele Fayose’s administration that the problem is largely solved now with the construction of the Justice Ademola Ajakaiye House. “As laudable as the new building is, it is still in a way, a hybrid of absurdity. In its present state, it can’t properly and comfortably function as court house as it was not properly designed for that purpose nor was it designed for administrative purposes. “That of course is why we have not been able to put it into use since that building was commissioned earlier in the month of May this year. “Our appeal now goes to the current administration of Dr. Kayode Fayemi to come to our rescue in reconstructing the interior of the new building to enable us put it into appropriate use.” Justice Daramola also advocated a better funding of the Judiciary for that arm of government to remain truly independent and better perform its constitutional roles. In his short remark, Fayemi urged the “cooperation of every arm of government to make Ekiti fulfill the purpose for its existence”. Also, the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Olawale Fapohunda, advocated the support of the Bar to fight crime in the state and ensure that criminals are tried and convicted for the crime they commit. The Anglican Bishop of Ekiti Diocese, the Rt. Rev. Christopher Omotunde, called on the concerned authorities to provide judges and other judicial officers with adequate security. He explained that one police orderly given to each judge for protection is not appropriate because of the sensitive nature of their job, describing such police orderlies as “mere decoration”. The bishop urged judicial officers to be above board, fearless and be guided by the fear of God in the discharge of their duties.