Mary Nnah Founder, Nigerian Designers Award Fashion Show, Olasunkanmi Dasilva has said that the event, which is one of a kind, is designed to embrace creativity in Nigeria as well as encourage young talents in the creativity and fashion design industry. Speaking at a press briefing recently to announce the upcoming event scheduled to hold on December 2 at the Podium, Lekki Lagos, Dasliva said: “There are lots of young people out there who have passion for creativity and who are very good in sketching, stitching and tailoring but lack the platforms to display these talents, so that is why we have put this show together in order to create a platform for them.” Speaking further on the rationale behind the forthcoming fashion show and award, he noted, “We noticed that a lot of renowned fashion designers in Nigeria who have been so celebrated lack platforms to celebrate upcoming and talented fashion designers, so we are trying to fill this obvious gap. “Apparently, one of the basic needs of man apart from food and shelter, is clothing, so people that cloth us should be credited. So we are trying to give accolades to Nigerian designers, especially the young talents as we promote their brands.”
He explained that the award and fashion show would be focusing on the upcoming designers, adding, “we are looking at how we can bring them together to mentor them on fashion business and also teach them how they can also promote their brands to the world.” He said the event would also afford the opportunity to encourage designers and Nigerians at large to embrace our local outfit. “It is time we project to the world what is positive about us, we have a whole lot to project to the world. Our heritage is very rich and that is why we are proud to be part of this scheme. We want to project Nigeria and Africa at large to the world, we want to let them know that Nigeria is not just about negativity but that we have a lot positive and industrious people here.” He said organisers of the event are also seeking for sponsorships and support from likeminded persons and organisations. The aim of this event is to project young talented Nigerian fashion designers to the world and we need to start from somewhere. The fashion show/ award event, organisers said, will attract stakeholders in the Nigeria fashion industry and around the world. Dasilva who said putting up a show like this in Nigeria was very challenging noted however that his passion for fashion industry has kept him on. “I want to see young talents in the fashion industry grow. I believe that with God all things are possible. For the past seven years I have had this passion in me. I was just waiting for the right time to execute it”, he noted.
His advice to the young designers was: “Whatever it is that they believe in, they should keep pushing and be focused because with time it will yield good results.”