By Femi Solaja Nigerian boxing sensation, Tony ‘Sugar’ Salam, lived up to his pre-match boasting for a revenge after a massive win against Chomunorwa ‘Sting’ Gonorenda from Zimbabwe in the WBF African Cruiserweight title at the Kwesé and Kalakoda Boxing Promotions ‘Chaos in Lagos’ in Lagos last Friday night. The night of boxing entertainment featured six bouts in different weight divisions and the title bout was one of the three international contests that took take place at the Federal Palace Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos. Salam who was denied victory when both fighters met in Harare , Zimbabwe in August, controlled the fight from the inception and gave his teeming fans a lot to cheer before the champion was beaten to submission in the sixth round of the 10-round fight via a technical knockout. “I was determined not to give him any breathing space and that should be the lesson from the first fight two months ago. “My plan was to even knock him out much earlier but Gonorenda is not a push over. “I really want to thank my fans who stood behind me till this moment and I will like to assure them that the setback I had in Harare will not repeat itself again,” Salam responded after the fight. In the other bouts, Olanrewaju Durodola knocked down Maroy Sadiki in the second round of their 12-round contest in the WBF Cruiserweight World title fight just as Habib Ahmed was the better fighter against Sunday Ajunwa. He won in round three of the eight round contest for the International Super Middleweight bout. Rilwan Lawal won the Featherweight bout against Dare Oyewole in an unanimous decision just as Taiwo Olowu was the better boxer against Saheed Lawal in the Welterweight contest via a technical knockout in round four. Sadiq Adeleke edged out Tunde Olojede in the Bantamweight challenge via a split decision. The General Manager for Kwesé TV Nigeria, Elizabeth Amkpa, said that as the broadcaster celebrates it first anniversary in Nigeria, it is proud to continue to support African boxing through the Kwesé Friday Fight Nights that take place every last Friday of the month in different cities across the continent. Boxing fans who could not be physically present at the ring side however got linked to the bouts on Kwese Free Sports, Kwesé TV channel 285 and on the Kwese iflix app on mobile as well as viaYouTube.