PREMIERSHIP *Chelsea beats Burnley 4-0 to move up second on the log Crystal Palace Captain Luka Milivojevic scored twice from the penalty spot to earn his side a dramatic 2-2 draw and end Arsenal’s 11-game winning run. The Serb smashed in a late equaliser after Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang’s controversial goal had put the visitors ahead after the break. Elsewhere, unbeaten Chelsea coped without Eden Hazard to move second in the Premier League by easing to 4-0 victory at Burnley. Back at Burnley, Milivojevic scored the opener in the first half after Shkodran Mustafi brought down Cheikhou Kouyate. Granit Xhaka’s sublime free-kick had drawn Arsenal level at 1-1. Wilfried Zaha was brought down by Xhaka in the box with seven minutes to go and Milivojevic drilled his spot-kick into Arsenal keeper Bernd Leno’s right corner, having also beaten him on that side in the first half. Earlier in the second half, the ball appeared to brush Alexandre Lacazette’s hand before it fell at the back post to Aubameyang, who poked home off the inside of the post – with the ball going over the line by just 9mm. Before his error in bringing down Zaha to give away the late penalty, Xhaka’s stunning curler had cancelled out Milivojevic’s opener – which was Palace’s first goal at home this season. Zaha also hit the outside of the post before the break, while Andros Townsend dragged a shot wide. Palace substitute Max Meyer struck over the bar from close range later in the second half and Alex Iwobi’s deflected shot flew wide. Arsenal remain fourth in the Premier League table, a point behind Manchester City, while Palace move up to 14th and three points above the relegation zone. Elsewhere, unbeaten Chelsea coped without Eden Hazard to move second in the Premier League by easing to victory at Burnley. Maurizio Sarri’s side were without their star Belgium forward and top goalscorer, who missed the game with a back injury. Ross Barkley set up Alvaro Morata’s 22nd-minute opener, sliding a wonderful through ball into the Spaniard’s path to poke past Burnley keeper Joe Hart. The England midfielder then scored himself, sending a 25-yard shot into the bottom corner of Hart’s net just before the hour mark. Five minutes later, he registered his second assist of the match, as he set up Willian, with the Brazilian cutting in on to his right foot and curling a shot past Hart into the same corner. Ruben Loftus-Cheek, who scored a midweek hat-trick in the Europa League, added a fourth in injury time to seal the win.