By Duro Ikhazuagbe After Arsenal decimated Fulham 5-1 in an English Premier League London derby yesterday and stretch their victories in their last nine games, Super Eagles forward, Alex Iwobi, insisted the Gunners are not afraid to play anyone in their quest for a silverware this season. Speaking to Arsenal’s official website yesterday, Iwobi said: “We’re not afraid to play anyone. We’re playing without fear, we want to be consistent and keep it going. “The team spirit is better. The confidence is definitely better. We analyse the games a bit more and we’re proving to the fans as well as ourselves that we’re able to compete for the title.”
Iwobi who is enjoying his game under Emery despite initial fears that he may be surplus to requirement, insisted Arsenal should not be ruled out of “Well of course! But there’s a long way to go. It’s a marathon, so we just have to carry on being consistent,” stressed the Nigerian star. The 22-year-old forward said of his own form: “The manager has given me a lot of confidence, telling me that when I get the ball to just be positive. “Whenever I am called upon to play, I always try to give my best and make sure that I can impose myself on the game,” observed Iwobi who is expected to arrive Eagles camp in Uyo today ahead of the AFCON 2019 qualifying clash with Libya this weekend at the Nest of Champions. Emery began his reign in north London with back-to-back defeats to Manchester City and Chelsea. But the Spaniard has now settled in, leading Arsenal within a shouting distance from the top runners Manchester City, Liverpool and Chelsea who are tied at the top on 20 points from eight matches. Arsenal is fourth on 18 points. The Gunners have been impressive on all fronts, staying in reckoning also in UEFA Europa League and Carabao Cup competitions. Yesterday, Alexandre Lacazette scored two impressive goals before substitute Aaron Ramsey added a third and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang netted twice to complete the demolition of Fulham on Match Day-8 of the English Premier League. Emery was to later describe Ramsey as a “very important player” for the club after his goal of the season contender helped the Gunners thrash Fulham. A contract offer to Ramsey was withdrawn last month but the Wales midfielder showed his quality when he created and finished a stunning team move to help Arsenal to a ninth straight win in all competitions – their best run since April 2015. “For me it was very important for him to take confidence and take that first goal,” said Emery. “He did not start in the first 11 today but when he was on he scored within a minute and that gives confidence for both him and us. “We are happy because I think this shows the commitment we have in training and the quality and the understanding of our tactical position. “I think we are in the first competition in the world, and we must keep taking confidence.”