*Osinbajo commends initiative Goldcoast Foundation, a Bayelsa based non-profit organisation has distributed relief materials to flood victims in Bayelsa and Delta State through the foundations ‘All Lives Matter Flood Relief Programme’. The foundation, working with a team of volunteers made of up of doctors, nurses and pharmacists visited temporary camp sites of displaced flood victims to distribute a wide range of relief materials; including drugs, insecticide-treated mosquito nets and food items. “We are deeply touched by what the flood waters have done to people across the country and particularly, in the Niger-Delta” said Goldcoast’s founder and managing solicitor, TRIAX Solicitors, Moses Oruaze Dickson. “We recognize that our assistance will not solve all their problems, but it can help them cope with the impact of the tragedy at this time”, he said. This initiative is the second time the foundation would be part of flood relief initiative in the state, as in the 2012 flood; which also affected about 28 communities in Bayelsa State, the foundation worked with other civil society groups and medical teams to provide succor to the victims.  Oruaze with his team visited relief camps in Yenagoa, Igbogene, Seibokorogha, Igbedi, Okoloba, Angiama, Toru-Orua and Toru- Angiama in Delta State among others. The medical team treated various ailments, dewormed children and delivered health awareness talks alongside the relief materials they provided. “As a foundation, we are dedicated to ensuring that we reduce the sufferings of people who are affected by the flood”, said Mr. Benson, the coordinator of the foundation, who also called on corporate organisations and individuals to lend their support to the affected communities. Also, the vice president of Nigeria, Prof. Yemi Osibanjo, who visited one of the camps where the foundation distributed relief materials, commended the efforts of the foundation. “The reward for the good work you young people are doing, is the smiles you put on the faces of others”, he said. Responding to the commendation, Oruaze Dickson thanked him for his visit and kind words. “All these would not have been possible without the support of volunteers and donors who have contributed to this programme”, he said. All lives matter, and it is our responsibility as a people to always put humanity first in all our endeavours. During one of the outreaches at Yenagoa camp, the team of volunteers’ doctors and nurses had to support a woman who gave birth and was bleeding as a result of a complication during childbirth. She had to be rushed to a nearby hospital where she was given appropriate medical attention. “: We are very happy for the outreach and appreciate the work that Goldcoast foundation is doing to meet the immediate health and welfare needs of the displaced people affected by the flood, said Mr. Wisdom Fafi; the chairman of Kolga Local Government, where one of the camps was located. The Goldcoast foundation is the corporate social responsibility execution partner to Bayelsa based corporate organisations including; Solalina Investment Limited and Strong Ideas and TRIAX Solicitors.