By David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka The Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris has charged Chief Innocent Chukwuma, chairman of Innoson Motors to consider building Armoured Personnel Carriers (APC) as his contribution to assist the government in fighting insurgency in the country. Idris spoke in Nnewi, Anambra State at the inauguration of Innoson Vehicle Automated Plant and unveiling of one of the company’s latest brand; Innoson IVM Granite 2019 edition. Represented by his Deputy, Agboola Oshodi-Glover, Idris commended Innoson for providing camouflaged vehicles to the Army to tackle all forms of insecurity. He assured of police patronage on armoured vehicles produced by the company, just as he called on other organisations to support the locally made vehicles. “Innoson is making history. This type is rare. I congratulate you and want to assure you that police will give you all the necessary supports you need. “But you need to commence production of Armoured Personnel Carriers to enable the police tackle insurgents and other security challenges in the country,” he added. Also speaking, the Anambra State governor, Chief Willie Obiano, praised the ingenuity of the company amidst apparent challenges in the industry. “I’m happy this is happening in our state. It’s only here that we’re manufacturing vehicles. Others travel to other countries and gather parts to assemble in Nigeria,” he said. He however regretted the epileptic power supply in the state, which he said, had hampered the production possibility frontier of the company. The governor urged the federal government, to as a matter of urgency, provide adequate power supply and enabling environment for maximum productivity. He also appealed to both governments to commence placing orders on the vehicles produced by IVM. “With what Innoson is doing, he’s contributing immensely to the nation’s GDP and should be encouraged to do more,” Obiano added. Earlier, the chairman of the Innoson vehicle manufacturing company, Chief Innocent Chukwuma, said the vehicles’ major strength depended in its ability to produce according to clients’ specifications. He said, “The fact that the Nigerian Police vehicle operate in diverse and dangerous terrains as a result of its functions, Innoson vehicles can produce specific operational vehicles that would meet the operational requirements of the Nigerian Police.” He however urged the police to partner with them for the manufacturing of its specific and customised vehicles that would enhance its constitutional responsibilities to the nation. “This pick up is built for our roads and it’s in line with the latest generation of international brands of high end pick up,” he said.