Alex Enumah in Abuja The Nigeria Police have disclosed that 400 members of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) were arrested on the third day of their protest in Abuja. Also, the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, has condemned what he described as unprovoked attack on police personnel and the setting ablaze of a police vehicle by the sect during their protest Tuesday in Abuja. Consequently, Idris has directed a total clamp down on the perpetrators, thorough investigation and prosecution of the members of the El-Zakzakky Islamic Movement of Nigeria now in Police custody. A statement by the Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Jimoh Moshood, Tuesday night in Abuja, said, Commissioners of Police in States with the presence of El-Zakzakky Islamic Movement Group were now on red alert to deal decisively with group in accordance with the law and prevent the it from causing breakdown of law and order in those states “Consequent on the disturbance of public peace, unprovoked attack on Police personnel and the setting ablaze of Police vehicle in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja today, 30th October, 2018 by members of the El-Zakzakky Islamic Movement of Nigeria, the Inspector General of Police, IGP Ibrahim K. Idris, NPM, mni has placed the Commissioners of Police and their personnel in states with presence of El-Zakzakky Islamic Movement on Red-alert. “They are to deal decisively in accordance with the law with the sect and prevent the group from causing breakdown of law and order in those states. “The IGP condemns the attack and has directed a total clampdown on the perpetrators within the ambit of the law, thorough investigation and prosecution of the members of the El-Zakzakky Islamic Movement of Nigeria, now in Police custody”, the statement read. Moshood added that 400 members of the group arrested Tuesday for disturbance of public peace and law and order in the FCT as well as the burning of Police vehicle, and those arrested with thirty One (31) bottles of petrol bombs and other dangerous weapon, now in Police Custody, will be arraigned in Court on completion of investigation for acts and offences prohibited under the Terrorism Prevention Amendment Act 2013. He stressed that the Force will not condone lawlessness and disturbance of public peace by any group(s) under any guise that runs contrary to the constitutional provisions and other enabling laws on preservation of law and order and protection of lives and property of all Nigerians. While urging residents of the FCT to be vigilant and go about their lawful engagements without fear or apprehension, as the situation has been fully brought under control, Moshood warned that the full weight of the law will be applied on perpetrators of violence and lawlessness that can lead to breach of the peace, and law and order anywhere in the country.