Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) thrursday published the forms and details of President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC); former Vice President Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP); and other political parties’ candidates for the presidential and National Assembly elections scheduled for February 14, 2019. While the president and his main challenger’s names were published in Abuja, other candidates’ names were published at the INEC headquarters in the 36 states of the federation. The publication of the list, said INEC, was to enable the electorate make claims and objections as required by the Electoral Act 2010 as amended. While the list of candidates of various political parties are not yet available at the INEC headquarters in Abuja, but when THISDAY visited INEC office in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) at 6:45p.m., the list were still been pasted outside the office. However, the number of the presidential candidates could not be ascertained as the commission was still photocopying and pasting the forms and particulars in batches as at 8.30 p.m. The particulars of the presidential candidates pasted include, President Muhammadu Buhari, and his Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo of the All Progressives Congress (APC); the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, and that of his running mate, Peter Obi. Also published, Dr. Obadiah Malafia, presidential candidate of African Democratic Congress (ADC), and Prof. Tanimowo Nasiru, as his running mate. INEC has also published the details of the Presidential candidate of Social Democratic Party (SDP), Mr. Donald Duke, and Dr. Junaid Mohammad, as running mate. The details of 22 candidates for one FCT Senatorial District seat and 24 candidates jostling for two FCT House of Representatives seats were also published. Those vying for the Senate were Senator Zephaniah Jisalo (APC); Senator Philip Aduda (PDP); Mrs. Esther Audu (ADC); and Mr. Eric lb, (SDP). Those contesting for the House of Representatives (AMAC/Bwari federal constituency) include Mr. Lamorde Halilu (APC); Mr. Micah Jiba (PDP); and Mr. Ene Idoko-Abel (ADC). Other parties whose candidates’ names were published were include, Labour Party (LP), All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and Kowa Party.