By Nume Ekeghe Fidelity Bank Plc has unveiled a new account opening initiative. The bank also launched a new savings promotion campaign aimed at rewarding new and existing customers of the bank.  The new account opening initiative enables members of the public to open online savings accounts through a Quick Response (QR) code which can be scanned from any of the promotional materials such as roll up banners, fliers, posters and newspaper adverts. This is expected to significantly ease the process of enrolment of new accounts and deepen the penetration of the new savings promo tagged: ‘Get Alert in Millions Season 3 (GAIM). The GAIM Season 3 is also expected to run for nine months till June 2019. Under the promo, the bank, within this period would give out over N120 million in cash and consolation prizes, including weekly airtime rewards. The bank’s Executive Director, Shared Services and Products, Mrs. Chijioke Ugochukwu, disclosed these during the launch of the initiative in Lagos. Ugochukwu said: “This new savings promo is the eight in 11 years. As with the previous ones, we are motivated to continue to empower our customers by rewarding them with cash and gift items, whilst at the same time promoting the savings culture, in line with the financial inclusion drive of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN).” Speaking shortly before formally inaugurating the campaign, Fidelity Bank CEO, Mr. Nnamdi Okonkwo, thanked customers of the bank for their loyalty, saying the bank was motivated to continue to incentivise them for their patronage. He said it was imperative to acknowledge the contributions of customers to the growing fortunes of the bank. Last week, we joined other institutions across the world to observe the 2018 Customer Service Week and I want to use this opportunity to again thank all our customers. “Our impressive half year results attest to your support and with your continued patronage, we are on course to delivering on our financial targets for the year,” he said. Okonkwo said Fidelity Bank would continue to leverage technology, in line with its digital retail strategy, to better serve customers, through innovative products, services and solutions. He reeled our some of the products to include the newly upgraded Fidelity Online Banking, *770# Instant Banking and Flashkey. To participate in the new promo, the Head, Retail Banking, Fidelity Bank, Mr. Richard Madiebo said: “customers can open a savings account and grow it to N20, 000 or top up an existing account with N10, 000 or more to qualify for the monthly draws to win N1million or N2 million, among others. 