Experiences Bennett Oghifo Nigerians are known for a vivacious lifestyle, prominent with art, fashion and hospitality. On the heels of advancing the lifestyle narrative, the Legend Hotel Lagos Airport, a Curio Collection by Hilton has debuted in the heart of Nigeria’s financial hub, presenting ultramodern experiences that appeal to upscale lifestyles. The exquisite property is located along the Lagos Airport Road, Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja, Lagos and a private terminal featuring one maintenance hangar and one parking hangar for private jets is available at the hotel. Located just three minutes from the international terminal and five minutes from the local airport; the Legend Hotel Lagos offers guests access to local attractions like the Ikeja City Mall, Ikeja Golf Club, Lagos State Secretariat, and the New African Shrine. The conveniently situated location offers visitors a prime location for daily business activities and chic leisure. Guests visiting the hotel settle into a spacious guest room with Art Deco style and plenty of natural light. The hotel’s interior is decorated with avant-garde art, paintings and sculptures that are truly breath-taking. Taking into account the needs of business people, the desires of jetsetters and the individuality of Lagos, the Legend has merged world-standards with local creativity; providing an authentic, intimate and unforgettable hospitality experience. The Legend Hotel Lagos Airport features several hallmarks of the Hilton brand, including an indoor pool and state-of-the art fitness centre, contemporary and sophisticated guest rooms with plush bedding, restaurant and bar, executive Board Room with video conferencing facility, on-site leisure facility, menus featuring handcrafted food and a superior selection of premium beverages and international wines; not forgetting the flight support services which is unique to the hotel, and the first of its kind in Nigeria. The flight support services at The Legend Hotel Lagos Airport allows guests coming in from the VIP arrival to have access to in-house immigration and customs services. There is a Flight Support lounge that delivers the ultimate VIP welcome experience for the arrival of passengers and hotel guests. The Flight Support lounge provides quick grab and go style catering, clean and fresh changing facilities and is perfect for high profile meetings. All of this combines to revolutionize traveling from the often stressful experience it is, to a stress-free, upscale experience for the hotel’s patrons. From the greeters at the hotel’s entrance, to the administrative and guest service, the hotel’s staff are accommodating and eager to assist. This is a testament to the level of training and attention to quality recruitment, they are an integral part in creating a memorable experience for the guest. The hotel includes 54 elegantly appointed rooms and suites, 46 of which are art deco style rooms, guest rooms and suites with plenty of natural daylight. The rooms also include attractive views, espresso machines, Wi-Fi and fitted multi-plugs for the convenience of international business travellers. The Legend has 6 suites; 2 Business Suites, and 4 Deluxe Suites which further incorporate spacious living rooms, 40″ LCD Satellite TV, airfield or city views and access to an exclusive Executive Lounge. The hotel’s premium suites include 2 Presidential Suites which include kitchenettes, private outdoor terraces that provide a breath-taking view of the tarmac and runway, Jacuzzis, and complimentary access to the gym, pool and steam room. The Presidential suites are ideal for both long-stay and temporary residence. The Legend Hotel Lagos’ signature restaurant and bar, De Bull, is sure to make waves as not only a premier steak house but also an efficient grab and go buffet focused on health, and a superior selection of premium beverages, including international wines carefully selected from various regions of the world and craft gin with creative garnishes. The ambience at the restaurant and bar is casual and ritzy making it the perfect spot for both hotel guests and all Lagosians and visitors seeking an elegant dining experience. Whether you intend taking a dip in the indoor pool, relax in the steam room, host a corporate event or simply draw inspiration in the fitness center overlooking the airfield, Legend Hotel Lagos Airport is the ideal location for business and leisure aficionados looking to maximize their time and take advantage of the unique hospitality offerings that the Hilton’s newest entrant offers.