 Untrained ClericsSuch acts of misdemeanour now seemingly common with some Pentecostal pastors in Africa have been traced to poor educational background, especially as many of them neither attended seminaries nor got trained by theological colleges which would have equipped them for the cleric service.  Ostentatious Living
Another area of concern to Macaulay and his ACT team is “the ostentatious living and undue acquisition of wealth among Men of God”. Apart from this,  in Yenogoa, the ACT also has three other separate conferences billed for this October, which it has thus brought under a broad banner of “2018 National Programmes.” One of them is Certified Leadership Academy, taking place on Saturday, October 20, and is aimed at developing church workers through education. Christian workers and church leaders are expected to flock the session.From October 22 to 23 as well, the ACT has  scheduled to hold another training session cum ceritification of theological teachers and administrators; while on Ocober 24, 2018, the body is to perform the official inauguration of “National Student Theological Students Body.”  At that forum, it is set for yet an enlightening session with the theme: The Role of Academy in the Church and Theological Education. Theological EducationAway from the world of quacks and other black sheep in the vineyard of God, however, Macaulay said it is not all gloom, as many religious bodies in Nigeria have striven to sustain standards and make theological education as basic qualification for anyone aspiring to be a vessel of honour unto God.He commended the Catholic Community, the Anglican Communion, the Methodist Church, the Baptist Church, the Christ Apostolic Church, the Redeemed Christian Church of God, the Deeper Life Bible Church, among others, for setting up their respective formats of theological schools or training centres, to ensure that their priests or pastors are well groomed in the words of God.Macaulay, who is also the Director of Studies at United Bible University, Ojodu, Lagos, said it was applaudable that Nigeria now has more faith-based theological universities and colleges from where the clerics can advance their knowledge in the words of God, urging them to take advantage of this opportunity.“One of the responsibilities of the ACT is to regulate the activities of these faith-based institutions all over Nigeria; to ensure that standard is sustained in theological education, process of admission and graduation, and in the passing of the integrity test,” he explained.Macaulay commended notable Christian leaders in the country who have embraced the philosophy behind the setting up of the ACT, saying, “The Spirit of God is definitely moving in Nigeria, and nothing can stop it.”He particularly eulogised the departed cleric, theologian, public administrator and sport legend, Rev. Moses Iloh, who died recently at 88. He was until his passage, the General Overseer of Soul-winning Chapel. He said:  “Rev. Iloh was in the Board of Trustees of the ACT and did marvelously in his innumerable contributions to the growth of theological education in Nigeria, and we are all going to miss him.”