By Omolabake Fasogbon As preparations for the 2nd edition of the Nigeria Beer Festival hit top gear, organisers of the programme have said that this year’s event would devote more efforts to promoting the positive influence of beer in take. According to the organisers, beyond the excitement and fun that characterise the event, the festival seeks to correct a lot of misconceptions on beverage intake and draw attention to its health and social influence in a responsible manner. Speaking at a press conference to announce this year’s feast, which is supported by the Lagos State Government, General Manager of On and One Events Limited and Coordinator of the Festival, Akinola Oluwaleimu, said that the festival would run between October 25th and October 31st, 2018. With over 20,000 beer enthusiasts expected at the Lagos Atlantic City, Bar Beach Water front venue of the occasion, the impact of the merriment would also drive economic activities in the host state, improve the buttom line of exhibitors and raise the tourism profile of Lagos State and the country at large. The festival has proven to become a major international tourist event in Nigeria with a potential to compete with other international beer festivals around the world. Emphasising that the festival will promote responsible drinking among the drinking-age of 18 plus,Oluwaleimu assured that It will be a gathering of the largest community of beer consumers from across the country and beyond, with this year’s edition promising to come bigger, better and beertiful . “Nigeria Beer Festival will be a carnival week of entertainment, sales and marketing and a gathering of the largest community of beer consumers from across the country to bond and ‘beer’,it will provide a fitting ambience to showcase fashion and lifestyle, as well as culture in a carnival atmosphere with various beer brands connecting with their existing and potential consumers.” The coordinator also assured partners of world-standard facilities having liased with reputable and qualified architects from Europe to design modular stands to fit into shape and style desired by exhibitors. In his address, Permanent Secretary , Lagos State Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture, Mr. Fola Adeyemi, expressed confidence that the initiative will drive the vision of the state to be the destination of tourism in Africa. He said that the state was impressed with the successful outcome of the first edition and was proud to be part of the initiative this year. “The priority of this administration is to grow tourism potential in the state , this it has demonstrated through sponsorship of relevant and result oriented initiatives. “Our interest in Nigeria Beer Festival is not far fetched,we strongly believe in the value it will create for the state especially as the state looks forward to be tourism destination in Africa,” he said.