The first edition of Budweiser Electronic Music Lab known as BUDx, which held recently, witnessed panel discussions and talks by celebrity DJs and music producers in masterclasses for budding talents. Leading the discussion is the American-born Nigerian Grammy-nominated producer, Christian Rich; and DJ duo consisting of twins Taiwo and Kehinde Hassan who have produced for everyone from Drake to Childish Gambino. The duo brought their knowledge of the history of house music from the underground clubs of Chicago to its evolution to Berlin – sharing their knowledge of this genre of music in the masterclass titled ‘House Music Defined’. Hit making producer, Sarz, who has produced for everyone including Wizkid to Wande Coal and Reminisce took the talents in another workshop titled ‘House Music Production 101′. Sarz took the audience through his personal production process where he also shared some unreleased beats. The final masterclass of the day titled ‘Future of Africa House Music’ was taken by Ikon, a visionary music producer and rapper who has delivered a blueprint for creating Nigerian music. The producer was among the panelists that discussed ‘Understanding the Market and How to Monetize’ with Sarz, DJ TTB and Sensei Lo. Themed ‘Electronic Africa: This House is Not for Sale’, Budweiser Brand Manager, Franscoe Bouwer, stated that “BUDx is an electronic music lab, the first of its kind, which showcases emerging talent from the region as well as introducing a series of panels, masterclasses, seminars and interactive installations which gets behind the scene in emerging markets around the globe. Budweiser is the King of Beers that inspires socialization and fun.” The event, which held at Harrow Park in Abuja, was well attended by artists, producers, DJs and fans. The venue was transformed to creative spaces such as a hangout zone, complete with a Budweiser bar to refresh the revellers and a coloring wall titled ‘This House is Not for Sale’. Another smaller room provided a cool feel and engagement elements such as the panoramic style televisions and illusion walls. The BUDx store located next to the main room was stocked with limited edition T-shirts designed by Tomi Thomas in collaboration with uber trendy street wear outlet, Garm Spot. Following the great learning experiences, guests stayed back for a super epic after party where they witnessed engaging sets from DJs such as Aye, Sensei Lo, DJ Crown, DJ Aldeen The Sygerian, DJ Smooth and performances from Tomi Thomas and Pretty Boy D-O.