Mary Nnah Eliezer Workplace Management, one of the leading facility management companies in Africa was recognised as the most proficient facility management company at the 2018 edition of the African Quality Achievement Awards (AQAA). The award which gives quality an utmost consideration in management, products delivery and inter-personal relationship to encourage companies in living up to acclaimed world standard in service delivery was put together by the Africa Quality Institute, in collaboration with World Quality Alliance and the Chartered Quality Institute (UK), a global quality organisation consulting firm. The sixth edition of the AQAA, which held in Lagos on September 28 saw individuals, products and companies going home with various awards and Eliezer Workplace Management was one of the night’s biggest winners as it received the quality award in proficiency for the year 2018. Receiving the award on behalf of the company, David Korede, the Executive Director of Eliezer Workplace Management, said the company is truly honoured for being recognised in the category of quality and proficiency. He said: “We appreciate our employees dedication and commitment to quality and innovation. This honour truly shows that our employees across Africa have imbibed the culture of quality. “I dedicate this award to the Eliezer Group workforce across Africa to cheer and drive forward the company’s quality agenda.” Speaking on how the awardees were picked, the organising committee said “the two organisers set up a research team to carry out a survey in order to determine the qualifiers for the recognition.” Ifeoma Emeka, the Secretary to the Chairman, organising committee of AQAA said “the award was aimed at identifying, recognising and rewarding companies, personalities and products that apply quality culture and quality management best practice to the analysis, planning, implementation and control of policies, designed to achieve corporate objectives in both profit and non- profit making organisation in Africa. Those that received the award, met all the criteria that qualify a candidate, product and company, considering we looked at their performance, quality of product and service delivery.” Meanwhile, Eliezer Workplace management Limited, an ISO certified company, performs and manages a wide range of facilities management services in various Africa countries- Ghana, Cameroon, Kenya and also has affiliates in Angola, Democratic Republic of Congo and Chad Republic.