Adel Amrouche has revealed that he quit his position as head coach of the Libya national team over interference in his job and the failure of the soccer authorities to pay his salary in the past six months. Amrouche left his post on Tuesday, four days to the Mediterranean Knights’ crucial 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying fixture against the Super Eagles of Nigeria at the Akwa Ibom International Stadium, Uyo. The North Africans will host the Super Eagles in the reverse fixture on October 16 in Sfax, Tunisia. The Algerian tactician’s reign as the Mediterranean Knights of Libya coach lasted only six months. “The first problem is about my two assistants. It was stipulated in my contract that I will be the one to pay the assistants, but the flight tickets and hotel accommodation was to be sorted by the federation in all games and camp meetings,” Amrouche told Soka25east.com. After our game against South Africa some people in the federation took a decision to stop my two assistants from working for no apparent reason because they prefer bringing their own friends to do nothing to the team but to earn money.That is a big joke. “How would I work effectively without the very same people that help me work effectively job as Libya coach.” Amrouche speaks about the failure of the Libya Football Federation to meet up with their financial obligation to him. “I have been working for six months without a single coin paid to me and I have still been able to give 100 percent. I love my job and sometimes its not all about money, but principles must be followed or else people will take you for a ride,” Amrouche added. “I had already built a very strong team and many Libyans were happy as they had never seen them play that level of game, but suddenly some people at the federation decided to interfere with my job, they even wanted some particular players which to me is next to impossible. “I cannot work in such conditions, that is why I have decided enough is enough as you know I was not given the name Architect for no reason, its because I like to perform.” Libya top Group E with four points from one win and a draw from their opening two games in the qualifiers.