Rebecca Ejifoma The Lagos State Police Command has arrested two security guards from Strongcity Security Services, Kingsley Okon Asuquo, 19 and Isaac Edet, 18, for attacking and robbing a Lagos lawyer, Prof. Joseph Mbadugha. The two suspects, who were assigned to protect the lawyer, became the enemies after they ended up attacking and robbing the same man they were assigned to protect. Although they successfully dispossessed the victim of a bag containing a laptop computer, N40,000 cash, three cheque booklets and one iPhone-6. The police recovered all in the course of investigation. According to the Lagos State Spokesman, CSP Chike Oti, the Command had on receiving information from a credible source on October 13 this year at about 5:30pm that bandits held one Mr. Mbadugha, also known as Prof McCarty Mbadugha, hostage in his office at JohnVic Igbanogo street, Lekki Phase one, Lagos. The informant further told the police that the armed men were seen wearing Strongcity Security Services uniform. “Based on the information, operatives from Maroko Police Station and FSARS Ikeja, jointly mobilised to the scene.” On sighting the operatives, the hoodlums were said to have ran in different directions to avoid being arrested but one of them, Edet, was nabbed at the scene. During interrogation, “Edet led detectives to arrest his partner in crime, Asuquo. Both suspects are staff of Strongcity Security Services attached to the victim. They claimed the victim does not pay their salary as at when due; hence, they planned with others at large to rob and kill him if necessary.” Police information has it that the suspects succeeded in dispossessing the victim of a bag containing a laptop computer, N40,000 cash, three cheque booklets and one iPhone-6. “All these items were recovered from the thieves in the course of investigation,” Oti added. Meanwhile, the Commissoner of Police, Imohimi Edgal, has directed the head of the command’s intelligence unit to fish out the suspects at large for prosecution.