Mary Nnah Miss Alice Duke, who up till recently was holding the title of Miss Cross Rivers State, has emerged winner of Most Beautiful Girl at Beauty of Africa International Pageant (BAIP) 2018. She beat 36 delegates to emerge winner after a keen contest which held at Muson Centre, Lagos, on Friday, October 12. Commenting on her victory, newly crowned Duke, said, “Words cannot express my joy. I want to thanks all those who supported me especially my mom for all the love and encouragement. And I also want to thank God for this victory!” Indeed it was a night of fun and excitement as the judges obviously overwhelmed had challenges picking the eventual winners at the vent which was anchored by popular OAP, Nancy Isime. Speaking on the success of the event, organiser of BAIP, Mr. Daniel Opuene said that once more, his platform has delivered yet again on a world class show: “The Beauty of Africa International Pageant (BAIP) is an International beauty Pageant that holds yearly in Nigeria. The pageant main advocacy is allowing participants to use their charm and elegance to unite Nigeria.” Meanwhile, the new Queen went home with a car gift, cash prize and a annual salary including wardrobe allowance along with a corporate endorsement deal. She will represent Nigeria at The Miss Tourism International World Finals 2019. Miss Bayelsa, Orunmwense Daniella who emerged first runners-up goes home with an annual salary, wardrobe allowance, and corporate endorsement also will represent Nigeria at Miss the Miss Supranatural world Finals in 2019 in Poland. For the 2nd runners-up, Gbadamosi Abayomi it is an annual salary, wardrobe allowances cooperate endorsement and a trip to represent Nigeria at the Miss Globe World finals 2019 in Albania while the 3rd runners-up, Tassie Winifred, gets annual salary, wardrobe allowances cooperate endorsement and a trip to represent Nigeria at the Miss Tourism Queen of the Year International finals 2019 in China. The 4th Runners-up, Ogwuche Mary gets annual salary, wardrobe allowances, cooperate endorsement and will be involved in humanitarian projects in Nigeria.