BY Demola Ojo Two days ago, the Legend Hotel Lagos Airport officially opened its doors to guests at a launch event attended by some of Nigeria’s most powerful men. Situated next to the Murtala Muhammed International Airport’s private jet terminal, the hotel which features a private jet hangar and an exclusive immigrations and customs desk for private jet customers, joins the exclusive Curio Collection by Hilton, a collection of more than 60 one-of-a-kind hotels and resorts celebrated for their individuality and appeal to travellers seeking local and authentic experiences. It is also Hilton’s 500th hotel to open across Europe, Middle East and Africa. VIPs including Africa’s richest man, Alhaji Aliko Dangote; Nigeria’s Minister of State for Aviation, Hadi Sirika; Chief Executive of Oando, Wale Tinubu; CEO, Access Bank, Herbert Wigwe; Chairman, BUA Group, Abdul Samad Rabiu among others came to celebrate with Chris Nassetta (Chief Executive Officer of Hilton) and Sam Iwuajoku (Director of Quits Hospitality Limited, the owners of the property). “It is my first time in Lagos and also the first time I’m having an experience like this,” said Nassetta. “We never had a hotel at the airport like this and I would like to congratulate Mr Sam.” According to Sirika, “As minister, my purpose is to create an environment to support businesses. It’s no doubt that this is unique because there’s nothing like this in the continent of Africa. t’s like crossing the Rubicon. Sam has done us proud and you can rest assured of the support of the government in this enterprise. “Within the first quarter of next year, we’ll be welcoming an A380 to Nigeria. I believe you’re in the right business and the right location,” he affirmed. First of its kind in Nigeria, the hotel features a flight support lounge that delivers the ultimate VIP welcome experience for the arrival of passengers and hotel guests. The lounge provides quick grab and go style catering, clean and fresh changing facilities and is perfect for high profile meetings. All of this combines to revolutionize travelling from the often stressful experience it is, to a stress-free, upscale experience for the hotel’s patrons: picture stepping out of a jet and a few steps later you’re in the restaurant or straight to your room. The Legend Hotel offers guests spacious guest rooms with Art Deco style and plenty of natural light. The hotel’s interior is decorated with avant-garde art, paintings and sculptures that are truly breathtaking. Taking into account the needs of business people, the desires of jetsetters and the individuality of Lagos, the Legend has merged world standards with local creativity; providing an authentic, intimate and unforgettable experience. Featuring several hallmarks of the Hilton brand, the hotel features an indoor pool and state-of-the art fitness centre, contemporary and sophisticated guest rooms with plush bedding, restaurant and bar, executive board room with video conferencing facility and on-site leisure facilities. Facilities include 54 rooms with free wifi, 40-inch TVs, separate bathtub and shower, as well as indoor swimming pool, steam room, fitness centre, and De Bull restaurant and bar. The rooms include attractive views (airfield or city views) and access to an exclusive Executive Lounge. Espresso machines, fitted multi-plugs for the convenience of international business travellers are some of the other amenities available for guests. The Legend has six suites; two Business Suites, and four Deluxe Suites which further incorporate spacious living rooms. The hotel’s premium suites include two Presidential Suites which include kitchenettes, private outdoor terraces that provide a breath-taking view of the tarmac and runway, Jacuzzis, and complimentary access to the gym, pool and steam room. The Presidential Suites are ideal for both long-stay and temporary residence. The Legend Hotel’s signature restaurant and bar, De Bull, is sure to make waves as not only a premier steak house but also an efficient grab and go buffet focused on health. Meanwhile, Hilton says it is on track to double its presence in Africa in the next five years, with 41 open hotels and 53 in its development pipeline. Eight properties are set to open across the continent this year, three of which will be under the Hilton Garden Inn brand. Speaking earlier Nassetta said: “We continue to innovate in Africa with new brands and products, and we are pleased to introduce our Curio Collection brand here with the opening of Legend Hotel Lagos Airport. “As the continent continues to undergo rapid urbanization, with the UN forecasting that the world’s ten fastest-growing cities will all be in Africa by 2035, this hotel is a part of our strategy to connect guests to key cities and airport locations across the region.”