By Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has called on the European Union (EU) and the United States of America to bring their influence to bear on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct free, fair and credible elections in 2019. The National Chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus, disclosed this Wednesday in Abuja when he received a delegation of the European Union of the Election Exploration Mission to Nigeria led by Niclay Paus. He also wants the international partners to show more than a passing interest in the activities of security agencies during elections. According to him, “The international partners of Nigeria especially European Union and America should bring their influence to bear on the INEC to conduct free, fair and credible elections.” Secondus said that intelligence available to the party showed that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has concluded arrangement with INEC to manipulate the electoral process. He noted that even though the main agent of the APC in the commission, a relation of the president, Amina Zakari, was deployed from the operations department, but stressed that the party is demanding her total resignation as she is capable of influencing others within the electoral body. Secondus stated that what happened at the governorship election in Osun State merely underscored the party’s fears that INEC is not ready to be neutral. He noted: “When we eschewed violence after the electoral theft in Osun State and decided to exercise our right to peaceful protest, the Inspector General of Police directed his personnel to tear gas us notwithstanding the personalities involved in the protest, the Senate President, Speaker of the House of Representstives, five state governors and National Chairman and members of the National Working Committee (NWC) and other critical leaders. “Our fear is strong that the APC and the administration are not disposing themselves for a peaceful 2019 general election and we base our position on the multiplicity of induced crisis across the country. “With all the unprecedented blood letting in the country, the president is not engaging the people and a select group operating as cabals have hijacked the system.”