 Transcorp Hilton Abuja has disclosed that it recently won awards at simultaneous gala ceremonies held in two continents. For the third consecutive year, the hotel said it was presented with Signum Virtutis, the seal of excellence, as the winner of the award for Seven Stars Business Hotel-Africa and the Best Luxury Hotel at the Gala Ceremony of the 2018 Seven Stars Luxury Hospitality and Lifestyle Awards hosted in Greece.  Remarkably, the MD/CEO Transcorp Hotels Plc, owners of Transcorp Hilton Abuja, Valentine Ozigbo, was also honoured with the Seven Stars Pantheon of Hospitality award, an industry first designed to award the outstanding achievements and careers of the individuals behind the most successful properties around the world.  “On the same night, for the 4th year in a row, Africa’s leading hospitality destination emerged winner of World Travel Awards in five categories, including Africa’s Leading Business Hotel at the 2018 Africa and Indian Ocean Gala Ceremony which took place at Durban International Convention Centre in Durban, South Africa.  “The hotel also went home with prizes for Nigeria’s Leading Hotel, Nigeria’s Leading Business Hotel, Nigeria’s Leading MICE Hotel and Nigeria’s Leading Hotel Suite.  “We’re honoured to be recognised for our commitments to excellence in hospitality,” Ozigbo was quoted to have said in a statement.  He added: “The industry awards are a testament that our transformation initiatives are appreciated by the travelling public.  “They also come in recognition of Transcorp Hilton Abuja’s leadership in redefining hospitality not only in Nigeria but also globally. These awards are dedicated to our team members who work tirelessly, to our guests for choosing us always and to our late hotel manager, Ahmed Abdelghafar who died in Egypt after a brief illness.”  Commenting on the awards, the General Manager, Transcorp Hilton Abuja, Etienne Gailliez said, “It is a great honour to receive World Travel Awards and Seven Stars Luxury Hospitality and Lifestyle Awards at the same time.  “Every day our over 1000 Team Members work hard to create exceptional experiences for our guests; the awards are a fitting reward for the hard work and dedication of our Team Members.” 