 The organisers of Work and Play Car race series have announced that the second edition of the Ondo Rally has been slated for November 16th and 17th, 2018 with the starting point being Smokin Hills Golf Course in Ilara- Mokin in Ondo State.  The facilitator of the event, Ade Ojuoko, said at the weekend that this year’s edition would be a major improvement on last year’s.  “We already have huge interest shown toward this event from the motorsport community in Nigeria, which for us is a sign for endorsement. We have also secured the support of the state government just like last year and the those of relevant bodies that would make the event a success.”  Last year’s winner “Stingray” would be the major attraction this year along with other racing teams in Nigeria who have entered their top drivers for the event.  Ojuoko also said that Work and Play’s race-car named ‘Tiger’ would be returning to this year’s edition with two other versions.  “Apart from first time racing teams who have shown interest to be part of the event, our race car, “Tiger” would be racing with two other newer versions,” he added.  Ojuoko also said that the global regulating body for the sport FIA (Federation Internationale de l’Automobile) would be represented at the event along with the officials of the Federal Road Safety Corps.  The event this year would on the opening day be hosting all the participants and tourists to drifting challenge. There would also be sight-seeing visits to some of the major tourism attractions in the state including the popular Idanre Hills.  “The show begins with a long convoy drive from Lagos through Ogun, Oyo and Osun states before the finally arriving at the venue of the first session of the races.”  The participants and visitors would be received by the state officials. The event would be engaging over 100 volunteers for the race from the state apart from key personnel in the Central Working Committee.  He added that the race’s goal is to spike local tourism and showcase each race destination to the audience of motorsports among other things. It is striking to note that the Ondo Car Rally officially signals the start of Nigeria Travel Week, a series of annual events in November designed to promote domestic and inbound tourism in Nigeria.  The competition is in three categories, Off-Road, Road and Bike Race.  The Off-Road race would flag off the event where Sports Utility Vehicles have been penciled to race. The race is to be flagged off in Ilara-Mokin by the Founder of Elizade and Chairman of Toyota Nigeria Limited, Chief Michael Ade. Ojo. 