 Coscharis Motors, exclusive distributor for Ford in Nigeria, unveiled the new EcoSport compact sports utility vehicle (SUV) at the Abuja International Motor Fair. “We are thrilled to introduce the new Ford EcoSport to the Nigerian market,” says Abiona Babarinde, General Manager, Marketing and Corporate Communications at Coscharis Motors. “The vehicle comes with more advanced features, more refined styling, and more sophisticated technologies. “The EcoSport is a popular model in Nigeria,” said Babarinde. “And the new EcoSport offers customers even more style, comfort, capability, and choice – blending rugged SUV functionality with city car practicality – making it more appealing and competitive than ever.” Powerful and efficient The new EcoSport is powered by Ford’s proven range of 1.5-litre engines, linked to front-wheel drive. The 1.5 TiVCT petrol unit produces 90kW (123PS) of power matched to a peak torque output of 151Nm. It is available with a five-speed manual or six-speed automatic transmission on the EcoSport Ambiente, or in automatic guise on the Trend and Titanium. Rugged and refined styling The new EcoSport features bold, dynamic Ford SUV styling. A sculpted bonnet with a central bulge delivers a cleaner front-end appearance. Angular fog light housings complete a front three-quarter profile that was inspired by the straps of a rucksack and designed to reflect an adventurous character. EcoSport’s rear bumper and tail light designs also are revised to deliver a cleaner, more sculpted appearance. Customers can choose from seven bold exterior colours, including Lightning Blue and Race Red. EcoSport now also delivers a new level of interior refinement with easier-to-use controls and soft-touch materials, and a new centre console ergonomically designed for easy operation, featuring fewer buttons. New seats designs are optimised for greater front and rear occupant comfort, and deliver a more upscale feel, including partial leather on the Titanium model. The interior features a host of smart stowage solutions, including an underseat storage drawer located beneath the front passenger seat, along with a spacious rear luggage compartment with integrated cargo tie-down hooks. Sophisticated driver assistance technology The new EcoSport builds on the commanding SUV driving position and rewarding Ford driving dynamics to deliver an even easier and more enjoyable driving experience using advanced technologies. Ford’s sophisticated SYNC®3 communications and entertainment system is available on the new EcoSport. SYNC®3 is supported by the new 8-inch colour touchscreen, which can be operated with pinch and swipe gestures. On the Trend model, SYNC®3 uses a 6.5-inch colour touchscreen. Driver assistance and safety technologies common across all three specification levels comprise ABS brakes with Emergency Brake Assist (EBA) and Electronic Stability Control (ESC). The Trend and Titanium additionally gain Hill Launch Assist (HLA) which enables smooth pull-offs on steep inclines and declines.