Michael Olugbode in Maiduguri The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) said the killing of two of it’s health workers held hostage by the terrorist group, Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) will be felt by thousands in crisis affected communities of the North East. Hauwa Mohammed Liman became the second health worker to be killed by the terrorist who abducted three nurses and midwives from Rann, Borno State on March 1, 2018. Saifura Hussein Ahmad Korsa, had earlier been killed about a month ago leaving only Alice Loksha Ngaddah in the terrorist group’s captivity. The ICRC, in a statement on Tuesday by it’s spokesperson for Nigeria, Aleksandra Mosimann, said: “A second health worker held hostage in Nigeria has been murdered.
It’s utterly devastating that we have to write that sentence.” The statement further read: “The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) received information indicating that Hauwa Mohammed Liman has been killed by her captors in a despicable act of cruelty. Hauwa is the second abducted health worker in Nigeria to be murdered in the last month. In a quote credited to ICRC’s Regional Director for Africa, Patricia Danz, the statement said: “The news of Hauwa’s death has broken our hearts,” adding that: “We appealed for mercy and an end to such senseless murders. How can it be that two female health care workers were killed back-to-back? Nothing can justify this.” In the statement, Hauwa, 24, was described as full of life, becoming a midwife at an early age, “People who knew her described her as a sociable, dynamic and enthusiastic woman who was much loved by family and friends. She was truly dedicated to her work helping vulnerable women in her family’s home area.” The statement further said: “Hauwa was abducted in an attack in the north-eastern town of Rann on 01 March, together with Saifura Hussaini Ahmed Khorsa and Alice Loksha. Saifura was deliberately killed on 16 September, while Alice remains in captivity, along with Leah Sharibu, a 15-year-old student abducted by the group in a separate incident in February. Hauwa and Saifura worked in a health-care centre supported by the ICRC; Alice worked in a centre supported by UNICEF. It said, the ICRC made sustained and committed efforts to secure the release of the three health-care workers, including a last-minute plea for mercy on Sunday to the Islamic State West Africa Province group, to no avail. “Hauwa and Saifura’s deaths are not only a tragedy for their families, but they will also be felt by thousands of people in Rann and other conflict-affected areas of north-east Nigeria where accessing health care remains a challenge. We urge the group holding Alice and Leah to release them safely,” Danzi said.