Femi Fani-Kayode, a former Minister for Aviation, is widely known as a politician, poet, essayist and lawyer, all rolled into one.
For some years now, Fani-Kayode has been actively involved in politics in the country. He has, at various times, been a member of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and the All Progressives Congress, APC. But what many do not know about this Osun State-born politician is that he cherishes friendship a lot. Though he has not yet featured either in a stage play or a home movie, he seems to possess some of the attributes of a comic actor in particular. And he is never in short supply of his comical tendencies. How? In a bid to exhibit his loyalty, last week, he accompanied a former governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose, to the headquarters of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, in Abuja. He was seen in the midst of a tumultuous crowd outside the former headquarters of the EFCC in Abuja. But Fani-Kayode, who was initially barred from entering the EFCC office, where the former governor was to be interrogated, was said to have put up a good defence, saying he was also a lawyer to Fayose. He was also quoted to have said that he had practised as a lawyer upon his return to the country from abroad. This, it was gathered, worked wonders, as he and a few others were eventually allowed entry into the EFCC office, amidst cheers from the crowd. This is laughable because he himself, alongside two others, is facing trial over money laundering charges at a Lagos High Court.
Interestingly, if you thought that was all, you are wrong! Again, he surfaced at the Federal High Court, Ikoyi, on Monday, when Fayose was arraigned, in a dramatic way.
This time, he rationalized his presence and support for Fayose saying, “I believe in the virtues of courage, loyalty and faith in God. I believe in loyalty to country, family, friends and political party. I am a patriot and I believe in loyalty to Nigeria. I also believe in the unity of Nigeria. I believe in loyalty to friends, through thick and thin. Fayose is my friend and that is why I am here. “He stood with me during my travails and I am constrained to stand with him during his. I am not a fair-weather friend: I am a real friend and I will always stand with the persecuted, the cheated, the marginalized, the voiceless and the oppressed. Fayose is being persecuted like so many other leaders in the PDP and that is why I am here: to stand firm and show solidarity with him.”