Nigeria’s leading sports facilities construction outfit, Monimichelle, has offered to fix the main-bowl pitches of the Abuja and Lagos National Stadiums in two months. Chief Executive Officer of the company, Ebi Egbe, who spoke at the weekend in Lagos said his desire is to partner federal and state governments in the bid to realize this vision of eradicating bad pitches in the country. “The vision of Monimichelle as a corporate body is to eradicate bad pitches not only in Nigeria but Africa. I m prepared to partner the federal government and state governments in a bid to realize this vision. The biggest challenge facing football in Africa is bad playing surfaces. Once, we can get that aspect right, African teams would begin to rule the world because we have got the talents,” observed the stadium facility expert. He insisted that if given the opportunity to fix the two national stadiums, he has the capacity to deliver the jobs in two months. “If given, the opportunity, I can fix both the Abuja and Lagos National stadiums in two months,” Egbe boasted. The Bayelsa-born FIFA licensed match agent said his heart bleeds over the sorry state of both the Abuja and Lagos National stadiums, insisting that it won’t cost much to bring the two arenas back to life and end the present nomadic movement of Super Eagles round the country. “Nigeria is probably the only country in the world, where the national team has no permanent home. It’s painful to see the NFF searching for a place where the Eagles would play any time we have a home game. “Monimichelle can bring all that to an end if we are given the opportunity to fix the Abuja and Lagos National stadiums. The job we did in Aba, Yenagoa, Katsina and Makurdi are there for anybody to verify. We don’t compromise on quality and what we lay are the latest geo-tech pitches that are certified by FIFA. “Our pitches are like natural grass turfs that are well manicured with coconut fiber and cock. The ball behaviour on our pitches is superb and unlike rubber pitches, our turfs are user friendly and cool,” Egbe stressed. 