The Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo is one of the dignitaries that will flag off the 2018 National Risk Management Conference organised by the Risk Management Society of Nigeria(RIMSONS). The two-day conference has as its theme: “Risk Management and Nation-building: Transforming National Challenges to Opportunities.” According to a statement by RIMSON’s spokesperson, Joseph Obah, the conference scheduled for October 31st and November 1st, 2018, will be a convergence of risk managers across the different facets of the national economy. The risk management practitioners to attend the conference include risk management professionals in government agencies and parastatals, the oil & gas sector, insurance, banking & finance, agriculture, manufacturing sector, telecoms sector, State and national disaster management agencies as well as pension and health management organisations amongst others. The statement quoted RISON President , Jacob Adeosun as saying that the choice of VP as the special guest of honour at the conference explains the national importance of this year’s edition of the conference.
“The conference is part of RIMSON’s contribution to nation building, especially in the clarion call for the enthronement of risk management awareness and culture in national planning and development,” he said. Insurance Consumers’ Forum Holds Nov.16
Almond Productions Limited, promoters of the Annual Insurance Consumers’ forum (ICF) said this year’s edition of the event will hold on November 16, 2018 in Alausa Ikeja, Lagos.
This year’s edition of the forum, has the theme: “Relieving Customers Pain Points in Insurance through Exceptional Service Delivery.” According to the Chief Executive Officer of Almond Productions, Faith Ughwode, the forum, which started in 2013, provides a robust platform for interaction between insurers and the insuring public in a no-holds-barred atmosphere, on issues that bothers on excellent customer service delivery. She said following the success of the previous editions, the stage is now set for the 2018 edition.
She said the forum this year will be chaired by Dr. Justus Clinton Uranta, former Group Managing Director Niger Insurance Plc, while Chief Chris Uwadiegwu Obi, former Manager in Charge of Training, Personnel and Human Resources Exxon Mobil Nigeria and now Managing Director Blue Pearl Konsult Limited will be the guest speaker. Managing Director Guinea Insurance Plc, Mr. Tunde Oshadiya, is also one of the resource persons at the forum.
She listed topics to be discussed at the forum as “what part of insurance transaction do customers experience the most pain or stress? What kind of products do you want from insurance companies and at what price?
“On digital insurance: what social media platform will you buy insurance from?
What do you want insurance companies to do differently to interest you as a customer? AfDB Boss Bags Honorary Doctorate Degree The Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti, has conferred a Doctor of Letters, Honoris Causa on the President of the African Development Bank, Akinwumi Adesina in recognition of his immense contributions to socio-economic development on the continent. John Olachy Momoh, Chairman of Channels Media Group, Nigeria’s multi award-winning television station also received an Honoris Causa at the 6th Convocation ceremony of the University held on Sunday 21 October 2018 at the University Campus in Ado Ekiti. “The honorary recipients are Nigerian ambassadors who have conquered the world due to the quality and functional education they received,” Aare Afe Babalola, Founder of the University said. “They were chosen on the basis of their distinguished reputations, outstanding achievements, exemplary leadership and extraordinary contributions to humanity. This is the highest honour an academic institution can give and today, they are richly-deserved,” he added. In his acceptance address, Adesina lauded the Institution as an epitome of academic excellence commended its high standards of discipline. To the graduating students,”invest your time and energy in making the right decisions. The story and history of this great institution is one of the right decisions that should be well-studied by those involved in tertiary education globally,” he said. Afe Babalola University is a private university established in 2010 in Ado Ekiti, Nigeria, with the ambition to address the disconnect between curricular programs and labor market demands. The University operates through five colleges for undergraduates (Science, Social & Management Sciences, Law, Engineering and Medicine & Health Science) as well as a Post graduate school. In November 2013, it was appointed to mentor the College of Industrial Development (UID), Accra, Ghana thereby becoming the first university in Nigeria to mentor a foreign university. This year, a total of 4013 students graduated, including 43 pioneer medical doctors.