Foremost Information Communication Technology distribution firm,Technology Distributions Ltd., TD, plans to fete its business drivers, especially partners and customers in an elaborate party to appreciate their consistency and loyalty in 2018. The occasion, themed ‘Celebrating You 2018’, would afford the company the opportunity to celebrate its regulars in the technology space and strategise for the coming year in a more relaxed and entertaining environment. To be held next month, this year’s edition would be graced by Ghana President, Nana Akufo-Addo and other prominent individuals including captains of industries, bank CEOs and entertainment stars. Managing Director of the firm, Mrs. Gozy Ijogun, explained that this year’s event would reach an unprecedented height in terms of the quality and calibre of acts, entertainment and attendance expected. “For ‘Celebrating You 2018’, we are taking things a notch higher, as we have always done every year since it became an annual tradition of TD. “We intend to celebrate our partners in a more special way this year for their patronage, support and loyalty to the TD brand. Apart from the mouth-watering delicacies on the menu, we have put together a strong cast of artistes, entertainers and performers to thrill our special guests who are expected within and outside Nigeria. There will also be an after-party to be anchored by one of Nigeria’s finest DJs – another way we intend to make it a memorable occasion for everyone,” she stated. According to the Ijogun, ‘Celebrating You’ is its annual tradition that aimed to bring together employees, partners, suppliers and clients in a fun and relaxing environment to mark the end of the calendar year on a positive note. “It’s an avenue to unwind after the rigours of the current year and re-energise for the challenges of the coming year, Celebrating You is also an effective medium of showing appreciation and encouragement to outstanding individuals and corporate entities that have positively impacted our performance during the year under review, she added.