Jonathan Eze Nestlé Nigeria has collaborated with Lagos Business School (LBS) to run a Sales Academy to train and equip its employees. This is in line with the company’s commitment to create an environment that allows people to learn, grow and thrive in each country where it operates. Giving more details on the academy, Mr. Chandana Fernando, Commercial Manager for Nestlé Nigeria said, “The Sales Academy is a 3-level Accelerated Sales Development Programme aimed at providing participants the support, training, skills and resources required to excel in their careers and to win in the market. The first phase is the ‘Sales College’, which addresses the fundamentals of business. The second is the ‘Aspiring for Sales Leadership Diploma’, which builds leadership skills. The third level is ‘Leading in Sales Strategy,’ targeted at all sales leaders.” The Academy will deploy training sessions, instructor-led sessions, simulated problems, business cases and other action-based approaches that challenge participants to think through how the models presented work out in practice. “The Sales Academy is expected to contribute towards transforming our Sales Managers into Business Managers with a competitive advantage in the market place. We chose the best business school, not only in Nigeria but also in the world to ensure that our people get the best training possible. We are confident that this partnership with the LBS will give each employee the opportunity to develop to the maximum of his or her potential,” said Mauricio Alarcon, MD/CEO of Nestlé Nigeria. Commenting at the commencement ceremony, Professor of Strategy at the LBS, Prof. Chris Ogbechie said “Two powerful brands have come together to develop this new initiative in our challenging business environment. This is the first time we are entering into this type of partnership with an organisation. Indeed this is a partnership of like values as Nestlé’s values of continuous excellence align with the values of the Lagos Business School.” Lagos Business School (LBS) has been ranked among the world’s top business schools for 12 consecutive years. It develops bespoke interventions with partners like Nestlé Nigeria to create an effective and meaningful experience for participants. The Sales Academy developed in partnership with Nestlé Nigeria is tailored to differentiate Nestlé’s sales force. 