FBNQuest Merchant Bank, FBNQuest Asset Management and FBNQuest Securities — all members of the FBNHoldings Group — have emerged as winners in several categories at the EMEA Finance 2018 Awards as the firms were awarded “Best Local Investment Bank”, “Best Asset Manager in Nigeria”, “Best Asset Manager, Pan-Africa” and “Best Broker in Nigeria.” This recognition affirms FBNQuest’s strong performance as a leading Investment Bank, Broker, and Asset Manager. According to a statement by the firm, FBNQuest Merchant Bank was awarded best investment bank for its leading role in key transactions across various sectors, such as Nigerian Breweries’ N11.08 billion Series 13-15 Commercial Papers; the FGN’s N100 billion Inaugural Sovereign Sukuk; Dufil Prima Foods’ N10 billion Series 1 Bond; the Divestment of AMCON’s 100% Shareholding in Keystone Bank Limited; and Notore Chemical Industries Plc’s Listing by Introduction on the Main Board of the NSE, to name a few. It also said that FBNQuest Securities secured the Best Broker award for its dealings on the Nigerian Stock Exchange and Market Making activities, including acting as Lead Stockbroker on the Notore Chemical Industries transaction. The brokerage business is consistently ranked among the top domestic stockbroking firms by value traded in Nigeria, and is also the leading Primary Market maker among the 10 licensed Primary Market Makers on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), the statement said. FBNQuest Asset Management was recognised for the strong performance of its mutual funds over the last 12 months across all public funds and bespoke portfolios. The firm is ranked among the country’s top public fund managers by the Nigerian Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Commenting on the awards, the statement quoted Kayode Akinkugbe, MD/CEO of FBNQuest Merchant Bank, as saying: “We are positioned to provide services to an expansive client base of retail, high net-worth and institutional customers. “FBNQuest remains committed to consistently providing financial solutions that will enable our clients make a difference, and we are honoured to be recognized once again as a reflection of the quality of support we give our clients. “We will continue to deliver our expertise in financing, advisory, trading and investing solutions, as well as our unique distribution and execution capabilities as a part of the FBN Holdings group. “FBNQuest Merchant Bank has maintained a consistently strong position in the investment banking subsector in Nigeria, with a rich pedigree in offering alternatives to traditional bank debt products and a reputation for the successful execution of several big-ticket capital market and commercial debt transactions.” The Advisory and Debt Capital Market teams have advised on several landmark domestic and cross-border transactions, successfully raising equity and debt from the public and private capital markets; while the Debt Solutions team has raised funds in excess of $10 billion over the past five years and structured some of the largest local project finance transactions in the oil and gas sector. The four EMEA Finance awards add to a portfolio of prestigious awards won by FBNQuest Merchant Bank in2018, which include awards such as the African Banker’s Deal of the Year for the FGN’s $300 million Diaspora Bond and The Banker’s Deal of the Year-Africa: Islamic Finance for the FGN’s N100 billion Inaugural Sovereign Sukuk, it stated.