EPIC-Africa with the support of The Rockefeller Foundation has launched the call for applications for the first African CSO Excellence Awards. The awards highlight the importance of organisational capacity to achieve program impact, and showcase civil society organisations who demonstrate excellence across eight key elements of organisational capacity. These include: Strategic Ability and Adaptability, Leadership and Governance, Financial Health and Management, Human Resources and Staff Development, Operations, Communications, Partnerships and Alliances and Monitoring and Evaluation. The awards are now open to civil society groups across Africa to apply for the opportunity to fundraise on the international Global Giving Platform, benefit from a series of capacity building workshops, increase their media visibility and participate in networking opportunities through the African CSO Excellence Awards community. EPIC-Africa is at the forefront of the charge to strengthen the infrastructure that supports civil society organisations and to deepen philanthropic impact in Africa.
The Managing Director of The Rockefeller Foundation’s Africa Office, Mamadou Biteye, said: “As a major development partner in Africa, it is imperative that we invest in initiatives that highlight the importance of organizational capacity for program impact.
“We are delighted to support EPIC-Africa in this innovative approach to map the pan-African CSO sector and showcase the highest standards of organisational excellence among CSOs in Africa. These awards will also expand the opportunity for increased partnerships among key organisations on the continent, for greater impact.” Also, the co-founder of EPIC-Africa, Rose Maruru said: “We are pleased to launch these awards to showcase the EPIC work that CSOs are doing all across Africa and make the case for ever more support for organizational capacity. This will allow CSOs to continue to be catalysts for the transformational change that our continent needs.” 