Born some 58 years ago, her birth was received with joy, high hopes and expectations. She was born into a family blessed with abundant resources both human and material. Welcome to Nigeria. For Nigeria and Nigerians, October 1, of every year has been sacrosanct since 1960. The reason is not far-fetched. It was the day Nigerian gained its independence from Britain. The day has become a blueprint for subsequent independence celebrations. As tradition demands, the day usually starts with a national broadcast by the Head of State (as was obtainable  under the military regime) or the president (under the democratic dispensation). This is afterwards followed by a march past by the armed forces, paramilitary institutions and students. Cultural activities are also observed. On that fateful day, a teeming crowd found their way to the Tafawa Balewa Square, Onikan, Lagos in their cultural attires. Emotions ran high as the people waved the new green white and green flag. It was Independence Day. It all seemed surreal until Princess Alexandra of Kent, who represented Queen Elizabeth II of England, arrived amidst pomp and fanfare. She was in the company of Sir James Robertson, who was the then Governor-General. Going down to business, Princess Alexandra handed over the letter to Prime Minister Tafawa Balewa, signaling proof that Britain had relinquished its sovereignty over to Nigeria. This was received by a tumultuous and thunderous cheer either by those watching the live proceedings or those watching from their television sets at home. At the stroke of  midnight, the nation’s green, white and green flag  was hoisted accompanied by display of fireworks. plays a vital role in Nigeria’s economy as energy resources gotten from it includes oil, gas, coal and water. Since its discovery, it has dominated the economy since the early 1970s and today, Nigeria is the largest oil producer in sub-Saharan Africa and since 1971 a member of OPEC, with an estimated production volume of 2.413 million barrel/day (2005). This makes it the world’s sixth largest producer. Since 1960, Nigeria has reaped an estimated US$600 billion and more  in oil revenue. Suddenly, her fortunes turned for the worse . At 58, Nigeria has maintained a consistent decline on almost all fronts, winning laurels for the wrong reasons. Recently, Nigeria was crowned the poverty champion of the world having emerged as the country with the highest number of poor people in the world, leapfrogging India. This was contained in the Brookings Institution’s data from the World Poverty Clock which showed that Nigeria now has over 87 million people, more than half of her population, living in extreme poverty. The report reads: “According to our projections, Nigeria has already overtaken India as the country with the largest number of extreme poor in early 2018, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo could soon take over the number two. “At the end of May 2018, our trajectories suggest that Nigeria had about 87 million people in extreme poverty, compared with India’s 73 million. What is more, extreme poverty in Nigeria is growing by six people every minute, while poverty in India continues to fall.”  Another issue that has bedeviled the nation is that of religious and inter-ethnic crises. Among the prominent one is the Southern-Kaduna crisis that resulted in many deaths. Also, the religious clashes in Taraba claimed many too. Communal clashes in Cross River, Ebonyi, Akwa Ibom and Anambra also resulted to deaths and wanton destruction of properties. Aspirations For all who want to see Nigeria thrive again, their aspirations are quite simple- provision of basic amenities, infrastructure and security. The emphasis on security is because there is a correlation between it and economic growth. A nation that battles with insecurity, will certainly have its fortunes decline as it’s practically a turn-off for would be investors. Therefore, Nigeria must effectively tackle the problem of Boko Haram insurgency in the North-east, kidnappings, Niger Delta militancy and herdsmen attack in order to improve its economic growth and development. Healthwise, insecurity also has a negative impact as the displaced persons have limited access to adequate health care services. At 58, is there is still hope for Nigeria? The solution to this question can only be actualised if our leaders shun personal aggrandisement, corruption , nepotism, surround themselves with round pegs in rounds holes. Happy birthday Nigeria