AFCON 2019 QUALIFIER *Ighalo, Bryan Idowu to join team today By Duro Ikhazuagbe Super Eagles camp in Uyo became a beehive of activities yesterday following the arrival of 19 more invited players for the AFCON 2019 qualifying clash with Libya on Saturday. After an initial sluggish start that witnessed just three players as early birds on Monday when the camp officially opened for business, the arrival of the bulk of the Super Eagles from Europe ensured that training started as planned yesterday evening. Nigeria’s Franco-German Coach, Gernot Rohr and his assistants who are plotting to pluck Libya’s Mediterranean Knights from the top of Group E drilled the team to ascertain the fitness level of each of the invited players.. Only China-based striker Odion Ighalo and Bryan Idowu from Lokomotiv Moscow are the last set of Eagles to join up with the team today for Rohr to have full complement of his squad for the battle with Libya. Goalkeepers Francis Uzoho, Ikechukwu Ezenwa and Daniel Akpeyi, as well as defenders William Ekong, Semi Ajayi, Leon Balogun, Olaoluwa Aina, Jamilu Collins, Abdullahi Shehu, Chidozie Awaziem and Kenneth Omeruo are among those at the Ibom Meridien Hotels and Resort. There are also midfielders Wilfred Ndidi, Samuel Kalu, Ogenyi Onazi, John Ogu and Oghenekaro Etebo, and forwards Isaac Success, Alex Iwobi, Moses Simon, Henry Onyekuru and Kelechi Iheanacho. The Mediterranean Knghts top Group E with four points (from their defeat of Seychelles and draw with Libya), while South Africa (winner over Nigeria before they drew with Libya) are second and Eagles, who lost to South Africa and defeated Seychelles, lie third. According to the Communications Director of the NFF, Ademola Olajire,  the Libyan Football Federation confirmed on Monday that a 54-man delegation comprising players, technical crew, backroom staff and LFF officials will fly into Ibom International Airport, Uyo aboard a chartered aircraft on Thursday. “Match officials from the Democratic Republic of Congo, as well as the referee assessor from Mali and the security officer from South Africa, will arrive in Nigeria on Thursday and then fly to Uyo on Friday morning,” concludes the NFF spokesman. PLAYERS IN CAMP GOALKEEPERS: Francis Uzoho, Ikechukwu Ezenwa and Daniel Akpeyi, DEFENDERS: William Troost-Ekong, Semi Ajayi, Leon Balogun, Olaoluwa Aina, Jamilu Collins, Abdullahi Shehu, Chidozie Awaziem and Kenneth Omeruo MIDFIELDERS: Wilfred Ndidi, Samuel Kalu, Ogenyi Onazi, John Ogu and Oghenekaro Etebo FORWARDS: Isaac Success, Alex Iwobi, Moses Simon, Henry Onyekuru and Kelechi Iheanacho.