SATURDAY  FAMILY HEALTH By BOBO BODE-KAYODE.; lifeissuesfromwithin@yahoo.com, Cell 0805337235. Human beings are sexual beings. This is because we are created to fulfill the ultimate purpose of not just enjoying intimacy but to procreate. Therefore, the human body would undergo certain changes from birth, toddler, teenage, young adult and mature adult, to middle age, and then geriatric years. It is very normal that you get excited when you are around the opposite sex. As a matter of fact, if you are not excited, then there is a problem. We are to enjoy these sexual years, before changes set in. These changes are natural developmental processes, which culminate through the years of puberty, the onset of your sexuality becoming visible, up till you become fully aware of the presence, development and use of your sex organs.  MEN: Long before you had ever heard the word, “penis”, you were well acquainted with what has been called, “man’s favorite organ.” Boys discover their external sex organs in infancy. As they mature, their sex organs continue to develop as their understanding of the male reproductive systems also grows.  Testosterone is the hormone that gives men their manliness. Produced by the testicles, it is responsible for male characteristics like a deep voice, muscular build, and facial hair. Testosterone also fosters the production of red blood cells, boosts mood, keeps bones strong, and aids thinking ability. Testosterone levels peak by early adulthood and drop as you age—about 1% to 2% a year beginning in the 40s. As men reach their 50s and beyond, this may lead to signs and symptoms, such as impotence or changes in sexual desire, depression or anxiety, reduced muscle mass, less energy, weight gain, anemia, and hot flashes. While falling testosterone levels are a normal part of aging, certain conditions can hasten the decline. These include: Millions of men use testosterone therapy to restore low levels and feel more alert, energetic, mentally sharp, and sexually functional. But it’s not that simple. A man’s general health also affects his testosterone levels. For instance, being overweight, having diabetes or thyroid problems, and taking certain medications, such as glucocorticoids and other steroids, can affect levels. Therefore, simply having low levels does not always call for taking extra testosterone.  WOMEN: Talking about your sexual needs can help bring you and your partner closer together and promote sexual fulfillment. Try these tips for talking to your partner. Women’s sexual health, like men’s, is important to overall emotional and physical well-being. And achieving a healthy and satisfying sex life doesn’t happen by magic. It takes self-reflection and candid communication. Although talking about sexuality can be difficult, it’s a topic well worth addressing. Follow this guide to discussing women’s sexual health concerns and promoting sexual enjoyment: Women’s sexual health: Start by talking about your needs You may feel uncomfortable talking about your sexual experiences and desires; however, your partner can’t read your mind. Sharing your thoughts and expectations about your sexual experiences can bring you closer together and help you experience greater sexual enjoyment.  To get started:  TALK TO HIM ABOUT IT: When you’re talking to your partner about your sexual needs, try to be specific. Consider addressing these topics: How to handle differing sexual needs: Sexual needs vary. Many factors can affect your sexual appetite, from stress, illness and aging to family, career and social commitments. Whatever the cause, differences in sexual desire between partners can sometimes lead to feelings of isolation or resentment. Talk to your partner about: Your intimacy needs. Intimacy is more than just sexual needs. Intimacy also includes emotional, spiritual, physical and recreational needs. If your emotional intimacy needs aren’t being met, you may be less interested in sex. Think about what your partner could do to enhance your emotional intimacy, and talk about it openly and honestly. There could be differences in sexual desire. In any long-term relationship, couples may experience differing levels of sexual desire. Discuss your differences and try to explore options that will satisfy both of you. If your difficulty persists, consider turning to a doctor or sex therapist for help. If you take medications and are concerned about your level of desire, review your medications with your doctor. If a particular medication is affecting your comfort with sex or desire for sex, your doctor may be able to suggest an alternative.  Likewise, if a physical sign or symptom — such as vaginal dryness — is interfering with your sexual enjoyment, ask about treatment options. For example, a lubricant or other medication can help with vaginal dryness associated with hormonal changes or other factors.  SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION: Both men and women experience sexual dysfunction, from her vaginal dryness to his erectile dysfunction, to low libido in either partner. But there are ways to treat sexual problems like these and enjoy sex again. Sexual dysfunction can take many forms — it’s not limited to erectile dysfunction or lack of interest in sex, often referred to as a low libido. Sexual dysfunction can involve pain during intercourse, an inability to maintain an erection, or difficulty experiencing an orgasm. Though there are many causes of diminished libido and sexual dysfunction in men and women, there are also many ways to increase libido and rekindle the joy of sex once you identify the problem. Sexual Dysfunction in Women Sexual dysfunction in women is grouped into different disorders: sexual pain, problems with desire, arousal problems, and orgasm difficulty. Changes in hormone levels, medical conditions, and other factors can contribute to low libido and other forms of sexual dysfunction in women. Specifically, sexual dysfunction in women may be due to:  Sexual Dysfunction in Men The types of sexual dysfunction men may experience include:  Dealing with Sexual Dysfunction All couples should be able to enjoy a healthy sex life — an important part of a relationship. If you are experiencing sexual dysfunction, bring up your concerns with your doctor. You can often correct your problem by: Studies have shown that there are marked changes in your sexual health as you grow older. Poor sexual functioning and disagreements with a partner about initiating and/or feeling obligated to have sex were associated with greater concerns about and dissatisfaction with overall sex life. Levels of sexual activity decline with increasing age. Although a sizable minority of men and women remain sexually active until the eighth and ninth decades of life. Problems with sexual functioning were relatively common, but overall levels of sexual health concerns were much lower. Sexually active men reported higher levels of concern with their sexual health and sexual dissatisfaction than women at all ages. Older peoples’ sexual health should be managed, not just in the context of their age, gender, and general health, but also within their existing sexual relationship.