By Mary Nnah In line with its belief that the church is civil government and has a duty and obligation as responsible citizens and strategic partners in the building of the nation, the Foursquare Gospel Church in Nigeria’s annual lecture series beckons. The lecture series is poised to encourage and motivate Nigerians to show greater interest in the affairs of the nation. Scheduled to hold on Tuesday, October 9 at the church’s National Headquarters at 10:00am, this year’s series was set to align with the nation’s 58 years independence. The public lecture, according the General Overseer of the Church, Reverend Felix Meduoye, is part of activities preceding the 63rd Annual Convention of the church which is scheduled to hold from November 12 to 18 at Foursquare Camp, Km. 75, Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Ajebo, Ogun State. Speaking during a press conference heralding the annual public lecture and national convention, Meduoye revealed that this year, “The Trying Triangle of Economy, Faith and Politics; Looking through the Eye of the Needle”, will be the thrust of discussion. The general overseer, who said this year’s topic is an interesting mix, especially in Africa, where the issue of faith has strong impact in economic and political decisions, added, “political appointments are expected to be made in such a way as to balance the different faith in the country, and where there is perceived tilt to one side, there is often serious outcry. “The churches have also become a major point for attention and mobilisation for elections by politicians. Also is the need to consider how the believer can still make the right impact of being the light of the world and salt of the earth considering the various and mounting challenges in our economic and political spheres”. Keynote speaker at the public lecture, he revealed further,  will be Rev. Father Matthew Hassan Kukah, a priest and social commentator, while the chairman of the occasion will be former President of Nigeria, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo. Meduoye, who explained the choice of  Kukah and Obasanjo said while the former  is a notable priest, social commentator, political activist, a vibrant and respected voice in the nation, the latter on the other hand has a strong passion for the growth and development of the country and has remained relevant in the national discourse and international circuit. While noting the strategic importance of this year’s lecture which is about four months from the national elections in February 2019, he said, “We are of the opinion that at the end of this programme, we would have succeeded in contributing valuable ideas and opinions to the ongoing national discourse as well as encourage and motivate Nigerians to show greater interest in the affairs of the nation. “We believe that it is time for us all to come together and contribute our part in the development of a more prosperous Nigeria. As a church, we shall continue to pray for the leadership and people of this country for restoration of years of devastation of its God-given resources while proffering the required counsel and advice where necessary to those in leadership. “Nigeria will certainly attain the new heights God has purposed for it where its current challenges would be overcome.”