Ahead of their national light heavyweight title clash on Sunday, fast rising Adewale “Masevex” Masebinu has warned his opponent, Kabiru “KB Godson” Towolawi, that he will not last beyond the second of their 10-round contest. The bout is the second between the pair, with Godson winning the first by knockout. They clash again at GOtv Boxing Night 16 scheduled to hold at the Indoor Sports Hall of Teslim Balogun Stadium, Lagos. Recalling his first encounter with Godson, Masevex said he was affected by a gash he suffered above his eye, a situation he said curtailed him and handed victory to KB Godson on a platter. “It was because of the injury I suffered. He is no match for me and I will prove that on Sunday by ensuring he lasts just two rounds. There will not be a repeat of the last time. I am sure of that. The title is mine. No shaking,” he said in a television interview. Their bout is one of the nine slated for the event, which include two eye-catching and traditionally fierce Nigeria/Ghana duels. One of these will see Nigeria’s Rilwan “Real One” Oladosu face Benjamin Lamptey of Ghana for the West African Boxing Union (WABU) title. The other pits incumbent African Boxing Union champion, Oto “Joe Boy” Joseph of Nigeria up against Anama Dotse. The big-name clashes also include the Waidi “Skoro” Usman/ Chibuzor “T Boy” Obi rematch. Another major highlight of the event will be the professional debuts of eight graduates of the last two editions of GOtv Boxing NextGen Search. The alumni in action include Opeyemi “Sense” Elijah, best boxer at GOtv Boxing NextGen 4, who will take on Sheriff “Oshe” Ogunbanjo in a super bantamweight duel; Taiwo “Esepo” Agbaje, who will fight Tope “TP Rock” Musa in a lightweight clash; Azeez “Who Say So” Tijani, who fights Waheed “Showmax” Shogbanmu; and Isaac “I Star” Chukwudi, who takes onAdeyemi “Spirit” Adekanla in a welterweight clash. The event will be beamed live on SuperSport in 47 African countries. The best boxer at the event will go home with a cash prize of N1.5 million alongside the Mojisola Ogunsanya Memorial Trophy.   Nilayo Announces Dates for Abuja, Abeokuta Marathons Nigeria’s foremost marathon and road races organising company, Nilayo Sports Management Company on Tuesday announced dates for the maiden editions of the Abuja City International Marathon as well as the Abeokuta City International Marathon. The patent holder for the two races, Nilayo Sports Management Company announced that the Abuja City International Marathon will be taking place on October 13th, 2019 while that of Abeokuta will be taking place on November 3rd, 2019. According to Bukola Olopade, Managing Director of Nilayo and race organiser for the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon, the Abuja International Marathon will be a full 42.192Km race that would start and end at the Eagles Square in Abuja. He, however, stated that the Abeokuta Marathon on its part will be a 10km road race that would finish at the Alake’s Palace. Said Olopade: “The success that we have achieved with the Access Bank Lagos City marathon in the last four years shows that Nigerians are in love with Marathons and Road Races and we at Nilayo intend to take the gospel of Marathons and Road Races to the nooks and crannies of Nigeria; that was why we acquired patents for Abuja and Abeokuta City races. We intend to move to other regions as fast as possible” Olopade urged Corporate Nigeria and well-meaning individuals to embrace the sponsorship opportunities the new races billed for Abuja and Abeokuta will be offering. He noted that for those that chose to sponsor the Abuja race, they will be primely positioned in Federal Capital Territory which also doubles as the seat of power. For Abeokuta, Olopade noted that the city is a perfect destination for tourism and rich cultural heritage that would add value to brands that come on board to sponsor what would arguably the biggest sporting event in the Gateway State. The Nilayo boss said apart from encouraging tourism and other socio-economic benefits, the new marathon races for Abuja and Abeokuta have immense health benefits that comes with running, walking and jogging.    Pg 2   Caption 1 Brooks Koepka has won three majors in his career  Caption 2 Cameroon’s Dutch Coach, Clarence Seedorf has insisted that he is building a team for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations finals on home soil    US Golfer, Koepka, Named PGA Tour Player of the Year Brooks Koepka has been named as the PGA Tour player of the year for 2018. The American this year won the US PGA Championship and became the first golfer since 1989 to clinch back-to-back US Open titles. Koepka, 28, won the award ahead of Dustin Johnson, Bryson DeChambeau, Open champion Francesco Molinari, Justin Rose and Justin Thomas. PGA Tour members who have played in at least 15 FedEx Cup events in the 2017-18 season were eligible to vote. Rumours of an argument between Koepka and world number one Johnson at the Ryder Cup, which were denied at the time, have since been confirmed by US captain Jim Furyk. “Whatever altercation started, or what happened, it was very brief,” Furyk said. “They’re like brothers. Brothers may argue, brothers get into it. But they’re as close as they’ve ever been, and it really had no effect on either one of them.” There appeared to be no remaining ill-will between the pair, with Johnson tweeting his congratulations to his US Ryder Cup team-mate. An incident at the Ryder Cup left Koepka “heartbroken” after his tee shot resulted in a spectator losing sight in her eye.  Seedorf: Indomitable Lions Open for All Cameroon coach Clarence Seedorf has insisted that his squad is open to all players no matter where they ply their trade. His comments come after Benjamin Moukandjo retired from international football following Seedorf’s snubbed China-based players for his first squad. Soon after Moukandjo’s retirement Seedorf included China-based striker Christian Bassagog on his list for upcoming games against Malawi. “We follow all the players and we see a lot of talent out there. We try to bring in the best players for Cameroon,” Seedorf explained. “Not just best in terms of talent but those who are motivated and who know what it means to play for this nation. “Every player needs to be happy and proud to play for Cameroon.” The upcoming matches count as 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON 2019) qualifiers for Malawi but not for the Indomitable Lions, who have qualified automatically as hosts. Seedorf, who drew his first match in charge 1-1 with Comoros last month, says he is already building a team for next year’s finals. “Some players think they can wait a month until the 2019 AFCON before making decision but that’s not going to happen,” he explained. “We want to build a solid and title winning side, that’s why the team is open to all.” He went onto say it was a shame that Moukandjo, who skippered the Indomitable Lions to a fifth African title in 2017, had decided to retire. “It’s a pity that Benjamin decided to retire,” Seedorf insisted.
“When I talked about players in Asia, I meant the young talented ones and this wasn’t particularly about him or any other player, that’s why Christian Bassogog is in the team.” Seedorf says he is in talks with Liverpool defender Joel Matip about a possible return to the Indomitable Lions. Matip quit international football after the 2014 World Cup has turned down recent call ups to the squad. “Matip is a very good player and we spoke to him before the game against Comoros,” he explained. “He was injured and unavailable, but we have continued talking to him. We don’t want to rush with him. “Matip asked for some time to get back in shape and that’s very important. He is a player we’re optimistic about and we’ll see what the future brings.” Seedorf has convinced Paul-George Ntep and Jerome Onguene to switch allegiances from France to Cameroon and the coach is upbeat he can persuade more players to make a switch for the Lions. “We have spoken to several talented players who were born in France, Switzerland and other European countries,” the Dutchman explained. “We have told them why it’s important to play for Cameroon – some of these players didn’t say ‘Yes’ or ‘No’. “They just said they will think about it but for us to know their readiness and willingness to play for this great nation.” One player with the dilemma is Dimitri Oberlin he has withdrawn from Seedorf’s squad in order to play for Switzerland’s under-21 side. The 21-year-old was born in Cameroon but moved to Switzerland aged nine and even if he plays for the under-21 side he can still decide to swap national allegiances. Clarence Seedorf is hoping to record his first win at the helm of the Indomitable Lions after a shocking 1-1 against Comoros in his first game as Cameroon’s coach in September. The 2019 AFCON qualifier against Malawi in Yaounde on 12 October will be Clarence Seedorf’s first home game as Cameroon manager.    American Football: Game Stopped to Mark Brees Record  New Orleans Saints’ game against Washington Redskins was temporarily stopped to celebrate their quarterback Drew Brees breaking Peyton Manning’s career passing yards record. Brees, 39, needed 201 yards to overtake Manning (71,940) and did so in the second quarter when he found Tre’Quan Smith for a 62-yard touchdown. The game was then halted and Brees was given the record-breaking ball. “I will remember that one for a long time,” he said. “It has truly been a dream come true. Truly proud and very grateful.” Brees tossed 363 yards in the 43-19 win over the Redskins as he took his career yards total to 72,103 yards. “I don’t know if that will ever sink in,” Brees added. “I didn’t set out on this journey to break these records. “I just play because I love the game and I love to compete and I love being part of this organisation.” In a pre-taped message, Manning said: “All your hard work and dedication has paid off. Congratulations and I’m proud of you.” Brees, who is in his 18th NFL season, led the Saints to victory in the 2009 season Super Bowl and was the MVP of the game. He has 499 career touchdown passes, which is one short of joining Manning, Brett Favre and New England’s Tom Brady in reaching 500. Brady reached the milestone last week. “I still feel like there’s work to be done,” Brees said.      Kenyan Coach Wins Arsenal/WorldRemit Coaching Programme Arsenal FC and its official online money transfer partner, WorldRemit, on Tuesday announced that Hamisi Mohamed from Nairobi, Kenya has won the public vote determining the winner of their Future Stars programme. Competing against five other youth football coaches from across Africa, Mohamed secured over 35 per cent of the votes on futurestars.worldremit.com to win the chance to train with coaches from Arsenal Soccer Schools. He will now prepare to travel to London to attend a customised training programme to support him in building a legacy of positive social impact through football in Kenya. Known locally as Coach Kaka, Mohamed is one of the founders of Young Talents Soccer Academy, a mixed academy in Embul Bul, Ngong. The academy aims to help children to succeed both on and off the pitch. Reflecting the shared values of the two companies, the Future Stars programme was set up by WorldRemit together with Arsenal to acknowledge and reward the valuable contribution of youth coaches to their local communities. “Our business is all about helping our customers’ financial support for their community to go further,” WorldRemit Managing Director Middle East & Africa, Andrew Stewart, said “The work of all the coaches in the Future Stars programme has reinforced our belief in the immense potential of sport to inspire positive change and encouraged us to explore further opportunities to support the communities we serve through sport. “We hope that this programme will encourage others to follow their example and that this will be only the beginning of a much longer story.” On his own part, Simon McManus of Arsenal Soccer Schools said: “Arsenal itself is an example of how the social impact of football can grow from a small local community to an international programme. “It is inspiring to us to see how coaches across Africa are using the power of football to support and educate children at the grassroots level and I think there is a lot we can also learn from them.” 