Ernest Chinwo in Port Harcourt Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has congratulated Rivers Angels FC for winning the AITEO Federation Cup. The AITEO Federation Cup victory by Rivers Angels, is the third time the club is winning the trophy in a row. The governor expressed happiness that Rivers Angels have continued to be worthy ambassadors of the state with their superlative displays on the field of play. Wike assured the people of the state that his administration would continue to support the ladies in their quest to win laurels for the good people of Rivers State. Similarly, the President and sponsor of Go-Round FC of Omoku, Felix Obuah, has congratulated the team for successfully defending the title they won last year. Obuah, in a statement in Port Harcourt yesterday, described the Rivers ladies as proud ambassadors of the State, adding that with the successful defence of the title, the Angels have stamped their dominance on female football in the country. The Go-Round FC owner also commended the girls for winning the title for a record eight times, saying the feat is a result of hard work and determination. Obuah, who is also the Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Rivers State, added that the victory of Rivers Angels represents another milestone of Governor Nyesom Wike administration whose passion for sports development is unrivalled. He described Wike administration as a story of sporting glories, recalling the moral and financial support being given to Rivers United FC and Rivers Hoopers in the Nigerian Professional Football League and National Basketball League respectively. He also commended the coaching crew of Rivers Angels FC, led by Edwin Okon for a job well done, adding that their technical and tactical inputs provided the tonic in the decisive final match against Ibom Angels which they won 1-0 at the Sampson Siasia Stadium in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State. The Go-Round FC boss however, charged the girls not to see their victory as the end of the contest but rather a wake-up call for tougher challenges in the new football season, even as he called on the Angels to see themselves as role models for upcoming players in the State and country at large. “By the feat you just recorded, you have established yourselves as the all-conquering team in the country. You are now the team to beat and this singular achievement has imposed a duty on you to work harder to enable you defend both the Federations Cup and the AITEO shield,” Obuah said.